Photo via Iga Jasica/Facebook19-year-old Iga Jasica of Poland began making headlines recently after the rumor got out that she accidentally awoke during brain surgery to enjoy a friendly conversation with the surgical staff about cats. Though only part of the story is true, we’re sort of thrilled to be able to report that it’s the part about the mid-brain surgery conversation about cats. Iga revealed on her Facebook page Saturday that her temporary consciousness during the procedure was actually all part of the plan.The teen told well wishers that when it came to the publications sharing her story, many “articles have a lot of mistakes.” She explains that far from being a shock to her doctors, “waking me up was deliberate – This method is called Awake Craniatomy. It was deliberate and planned.”Jasica even provided readers with a link to the website of University Hospital Southampton where the surgery is described in detail. “An awake craniotomy is an operation performed in the same manner as a conventional craniotomy but with the patient awake during the procedure. This is a preferred technique for operations to remove lesions close to, or involving, eloquent (functionally important) regions of the brain. This allows us to test regions of the brain before they are incised or removed and allows us to test patient’s function continuously throughout the operation. The overall aim is to minimise the risks of such operations,” it says.Recommended For YouRegister NowDespite the fact that her brain was indeed exposed during the waking parts of her surgery, neurosurgeon Dawid Larysz recently assured The Daily Mirror that Jasica would not have been able to see or hear anything. “Despite coming round, she didn’t feel anything and was never in danger,” he said.Jasica herself later commented, “I can’t remember much, but the doctor said he talked to me about cats, which I love. I missed Christmas because of this operation, but it is the best present I could have had, as I am now feeling great.”She stresses on her Facebook page that the “operation was successful and there was nothing damaged.” The teen says it’s important to her that people know that the “Doctors saved my life” and encourages readers to “not be influenced by stupid articles.”Otherwise the 19-year-old seems to be progressing well in her recovery and is looking forward to healthier days. Whether or not she’s decided to seize the opportunity to regale countless future strangers with bad jokes about being the “brains of the operation” she has yet to reveal.