Updated 3/02/02Please view updates at the bottom of the page.Addressing the Dell Issue. 2/26/02This is the letter I posted in a few Firearms Forums and sent via e mail.This is a true account of my dealings with Dell over the past few weeks.I am writing this because I feel every Firearms owner should knowthis story.I placed an order for a Dell notebook computer on February 13 on linewith Dell. I was given a tentative delivery date of February 21st. Iwas watching the order through the Dell on line tracking system; Ialso opted for the automatic email notification of when the machinewas to be shipped. Well the 21st came and went, I am a Pistolsmith Iknow things can happen. I made a phone call on the 25th, did avoice mail message for my salesman to get back to me and I waslooking for the delivery date. The 25th came and went with nocallback. On the 26th I placed another call this time to cancel theorder. After a few hours I got a call back, with this amazing reasonfor the delay. It seems someone in Dell had already canceled myorder, when I asked why I was told Dell was afraid I was going touse the machine for illegal purposes. When I asked why someonewould think that I was told it was because of the name of mybusiness “Weigand Combat Handguns Inc.”. Because I am involved infirearms I might be doing something illegal. Now keep in mind I wasnever called or informed of this decision the order was just canceled.Many of you know me personally and know I run my business aboutas squeaky clean as possible. In addition being the President of theAmerican Pistolsmiths Guild I am under additional scrutiny as to how Irun my business, if I am not clean how can I be the President of anorganization that promotes just that! I was informed by a Dellsupervisor not long after all of this the reason I was refused wasbecause of their post September 11th policy of screening buyers.I would like to respectfully ask the firearms community to do thefollowing. If you intended to buy a Dell and because of this letter youdo not, email Dell and let them know why. Feel free to distribute thisaccount to all you know in the Firearms community, I think they needto know. I for one am sick and tired of people assuming just becausewe are involved with firearms that we are doing something illegal. Ialso do not believe Dell deserves our business if this is how theyintend to treat us.God BlessJack WeigandPresidentAmerican Pistolsmiths Guild Inc.The above is the only letter I have written. I have written comments on email I have received (that number is now in the hundreds). I would like to add the following.I have spoken to Dell today 2/26/02They informed me that the reason my order was cancelled was due to the new post 9/11 screening policy. The word"Combat" in my company name is what triggered the cancellation of my order. The cancellation was triggered automatically. When I asked why I was not called to clear this up I was told there was a breakdown in communications on Dells part.Just for the record so everyone knows where I stand.I have no intention of further dealings with Dell, they don't deserve my business.I want nothing from Dell but I would gladly accept an apology to the Firearms community in general.I posted this expressly to warn firearms owners of Dell policies PERIOD.There are those that think I did this to generate traffic to my web site. All this traffic just made it hard for my customers to shop this evening. If you will notice there are no advertisements on my web so traffic is not a factor. It has also generated hundreds of email that I personally answered. Just so you all know I am not smart enough to do a publicity stunt of this magnitude on purpose, LOL!I would humbly request the following.Please, please refrain from making personal attacks on Michael Dell. I have received hundreds of e mails attacking Mr. Dell, please do not do this. I know we are all passionate about our right to keep and bear arms but please be as professional as possible.I thank all of those that took the time to confirm that this story was true before spreading it, you all are to be commended!Update 2/27/02After fielding hundreds of emails and dozens of phone calls today my heart felt thanks to all who responded.I was contacted by a Dell representative this morning a Mr. John Hood. John made the following remarks.He extended Dells sincerest apologies for the incident.He said Dell would review and possibly change the screening policies to prevent this from happening again.Dell offered to ship the machine I ordered to me at no charge, I respectfully declined the offer.John told me he would have a statement sent to me sometime Thursday morning the 28th stating Dells position on this issue for me to post here for all to see.I will post the statement as soon as I receive it.2/28/02 Update Statement from DellTo Our Valued Customers and Friends:U.S. export laws restrict the sale of technology to terrorists and to peoplein countries that support terrorism. These laws also prohibit computer salesto people who will use the technology in developing biological or nuclearweapons. Dell strictly complies with our country's export laws in order toensure the safety of our customers and citizens around the world. When thereis reasonable cause for concern, we carefully review customer orders forprohibited destinations and activities.When additional follow-up on an order is required, our sales representativesask our customers four basic questions:1. Who is the end-user?2. Where will the product be used?3. What will the product be used for?4. What type of business or industry is involved?The answers to these questions, like all customer information we gather, areconfidential and are not shared outside of Dell.We recently received an order from Mr. Jack Weigand, whose company name,"Weigand's Combat Handguns Inc." included the word "combat." We cancelledthe order to give us enough time to follow up with the customer and beassured that the sale would be in compliance with U.S. export law. However,we failed to contact Mr. Weigand, and as a result, we did not deliver theorder as promised, and the customer did not know why. Once we discovered ourerror, we apologized to Mr. Weigand for this misunderstanding, as well asthe inconvenience caused by the delay. This is not the service standard thatwe hold ourselves to at Dell.We at Dell feel a strong obligation to uphold our federal law, but we havejust as strong an obligation to be responsive to the needs of all ourcustomers. We want to assure you that the company does not discriminateagainst any business, regardless of the products or services they sell, nordo we discriminate against individual consumers. We do, however, sometimesmake mistakes - as we did in this case.Thank you for your support.Sincerely,Dell Computer CorporationThis is the link that has been circulatinghttp://www.progressivefunds.com/hci/I felt it was my obligation to post the followingThe following is a portion of a Dell statement that addresses the above link This was added 3/02/02We appreciate the opportunity to clarify the facts regarding a customerissue reported in the media and Dell's position on political or socialissues that many of you care deeply about.Regarding Handgun Rights/Handgun Control....Dell is a publicly-traded, customer-focused company with customers,shareholders and employees on both sides of many public, social andpolitical issues. Our place is to serve our customers rather than toendorse or support one position over another in public debates outside thescope of our industry.We do not discriminate against any business, regardless of the products orservices they sell, nor do we discriminate against individual customers.We do, however, respect the right of any organization or individual tohave their own point of view. We follow all laws, rules and regulations.Regarding allegations that Dell supports Handgun Control organizationsthrough the Dell Affiliates program...Dell as a company remains neutral on handgun rights and handgun control.Dell customers can support causes and organizations, if they choose,through Dell's affiliates program and charitable websites such asigive.com and progressivefunds.com. These sites feature links to Dell'swebsite. Dell's affiliates program provides a way for customers to supportthe cause or organization of their choice through their Dell purchases.Affiliate participants, such as igive.com and progressivefunds.com,include organizations and causes on different sides of nearly every socialissue.Some of the organizations participating through Dell affiliates such asigive.com and progressivefunds.com., promote handgun rights, otherspromote handgun control. Handgun Control Inc. (HCI) has been reported asone organization that participates in this program. Others including TheGun Owners Foundation and the Michigan Coalition for Responsible GunOwners Foundation, Inc. also participate through Dell affiliate igive.com.The only organizations prohibited from participating in Dell's affiliatesprogram are those that promote sexually explicit material; promoteviolence; promote discrimination based on race, sex, religion,nationality, disability, sexual orientation or age; or promote illegalactivities.3/01/02 UpdateThe free computer offer from Dell is a hot topic in much of the email I have received to date. I have since purchased a notebook computer elsewhere so I hope that issue is settled.Again I thank everyone for your thoughts and comments. I will say I don't agree with some of the letters but we are Americans, we have the right to free speech.Please keep in mind when reading postings on my site. I have no public relations department to draft and polish my postings. I think long and hard about what needs to be said and I post it. Please forgive me for being a little crude in my writing, keep in mind I am a Pistolsmith not a writer.I am doing my best to keep up with the email, over 1000 to date. I read every email I receive and respond to 99% of it.3/02/02 UpdatePlease go to the following link at the NRA/ILA web sitehttp://www.nraila.org/ActionAlerts.asp?FormMode=Detail&ID=101Title: DELL AND OUR RIGHT TO ARMSDell has issued a second statement, many of you have received via email. The letter contains the following statement:"We have tried to make it right with our customer by giving him a free computer for his trouble and inconvenience ."I have not accepted a computer from Dell. I have purchased a computer from another manufacturer.Again I thank the Firearms community as a family for being so willing to come to my aid.God BlessJack WeigandPresidentWeigand Combat Handguns Inc.