b'And in the Senate, Mr. Keene said, Mr. Helms was a rallying point for conservatives. As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, he supported Mr. Reagan on issues like aid to the Nicaraguan Contras. Without Jesse, it would have been hard for Reagan to hold the line, Mr. Keene said.\n\nMr. Helms saw himself as a simple man  he even used the word redneck to describe himself  who protected simple American values from the onslaught of permissiveness, foreign influence and moral relativism. For 30 years, he cut a familiar figure on the Senate floor, typically wearing horn-rimmed glasses, black wing-tip shoes and, on the lapels of his gray suits, American flag and Free Masonry pins.\n\nMr. Helms liked his art uncomplicated.\n\nThe self-proclaimed, self-anointed art experts would scoff and say, Oooh, terrible, but I like beautiful things, not modern art, he told The New York Times in 1989, during a pitched battle over federal subsidies for the arts. I cant even figure out that sculpture in the Hart Building. He was referring to an Alexander Calder mobile.\n\nImage Senator Jesse Helms on Capitol Hill in 1982. Credit... J.Scott Applewhite/Associated Press\n\nIn the 1980s, he took on the National Endowment for the Arts for subsidizing art that he found offensive, chiefly that of the gay photographer Robert Mapplethorpe and of the artist Andres Serrano over his depiction of a crucifix submerged in urine. He later led an ill-fated attempt to take over CBS, exhorting conservatives to buy up stock in order to stop what he saw as a liberal bias in its news reporting.\n\nHe was also well known for holding up votes on treaties and appointments to win a point. His willingness to block the business of the Senate or the will of presidents earned him the sobriquet Senator No  a label he relished.\n\nIn campaigns and in the Senate, Mr. Helms stood out in both his words and his tactics.\n\nHe fought bitterly against federal financing for AIDS research and treatment, saying the disease resulted from unnatural and disgusting homosexual behavior.'