b'Have you been briefed by the C.D.C.? I have. Are there worries about a pandemic at this point? No, were not at all, and we have it totally under control. Its one person coming in from China, and we have it under control. Its going to be just fine. Ive always known this is a real  this is a pandemic. I felt it was a pandemic long before it was called a pandemic. Now the Democrats are politicizing the coronavirus. We did one of the great jobs. You say, Hows President Trump doing? They go, Oh, not good, not good. They have no clue. They dont have any clue. And this is their new hoax. Ive always viewed it as very serious. There was no difference yesterday from days before. I feel the tone is similar, but some people said it wasnt. Were  what do you have, a very small number of people in the country right now with it? Its like around 12. Many of them are getting better. Some are fully recovered already. So were in very good shape. Were going to be pretty soon at only five people. And we could be at just one or two people over the next short period of time. So youre talking about 2.2 million deaths  2.2 million people from this. And so if we could hold that down, as were saying, to 100,000  its a horrible number, maybe even less, but to 100,000, so we have between 100,000 and 200,000. We all together have done a very good job. The flu in our country kills from 25,000 people to 69,000 people a year. That was shocking to me. But thats a little bit like the flu. Its a little like the regular flu that we have flu shots for. And well essentially have a flu shot for this in a fairly quick manner. View this the same as the flu. This is not the flu. Its vicious. It is so contagious. Flu has never been like that, and there is  flu is contagious, but nothing like weve ever seen here. Anybody that wants a test can get a test. Thats what  the bottom line. Anybody right now and yesterday, anybody that needs a test gets a test. Theyre there. They have the tests. And the tests are beautiful. And in some cases, theyre in California where we have too many. And then in other cases, the distribution could be a little bit better for certain areas, but weve done a good job on testing.'