b"We have people, out of the kindness of their heart, have volunteered to drive around and witness ballots and deliver them to the clerks office, said Matt Lederer, the Democratic Party chairman in Outagamie County, in the Fox Valley between Milwaukee and Green Bay. Were making phone calls and we're doing our best but so far, Im hearing that the turnout seems low.\n\nRepublicans, meanwhile, said they knew of few problems outside of Milwaukee, which has long been portrayed by the states conservatives as the source of Wisconsins problems. There was little sympathy.\n\nEverybody had a fair opportunity to vote, said Dennis Gasper, the Republican Party chairman in Sheboygan County. Nobodys having a problem voting. I went by a number of our polling places and theres no lines out in the country.\n\nBlack voters in Milwaukee are hit hardest by coronavirus.\n\nMilwaukee is the epicenter of Wisconsins coronavirus pandemic, and the black community in Milwaukee is among the most ravaged. As of Tuesday afternoon, Milwaukee countys coronavirus dashboard showed black Americans made up 626 of the countys 1,387 confirmed cases, and 36 of its 51 deaths.\n\nThe numbers informed the fear among residents who decided to vote Tuesday, braving crowds and even some hail to cast their ballots. Milwaukee had a massive drop off in poll workers ahead of Tuesdays election, forcing the city to close all but five of its polling station. Some residents had to wait more than two hours, while covering their faces with makeshift masks and trying to maintain proper social distancing.\n\nEverything has changed, said Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes, a native of Milwaukee. And folks had more time to figure this out, and we dont.\n\nMr. Barnes said it was already clear that the coronavirus pandemic had upended the states political landscape. He said the city should be commended for releasing such race-driven data on the virus, and that elected officials had to be creative in their solutions moving forward, as typical forms of political organizing, like rallies or door-knocking, wont work."