b'This is Jillian. Shes going to do todays workout with you. There are four simple exercises  march in place, squats, push-ups with twist and bicycle crunches. Youll repeat them twice, giving you a total body workout. Each exercise is 30 seconds long. Do them at your own pace. Youll rest for 15 seconds after each exercise. Give yourself enough space to move around. And grab some water, a towel or a mat, if you like. Are you ready? Your six-minute workout starts in three, two, one. Lets go. March in place is a cardio exercise. Lift your knee as you swing the opposite elbow forward. Keep it up as you alternate sides. Keep pace with Jillian, or go faster if you can. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. You have 15 seconds before your next exercise. Great job. Now rest, stretch or grab some water. Rested? Lets go. Squats work the lower body. As you squat, make sure your knees are behind your toes when you look down. Keep your heels on the floor. Breathe in as you squat, and exhale as you come up. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. Push-ups with twist combines a kneeling push-up with an upper body rotation and an arm stretch. Try to keep your body straight from head to knees. If youre struggling, you can bend from your hips, like Jillian, to make it a bit easier. If you find the twist too difficult, you can skip it and just do regular push-ups. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. Bicycle crunches work your abdominal muscles. Lie down on the floor with your knees bent. Now crunch your stomach and pedal your legs. Focus on tightening your core, and dont forget to breathe. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. Youre halfway there. Now were going to repeat each of these exercises one more time. Ready? Three, two, one. March in place boosts your heart rate without placing strain on your joints. As you march, keep your chest open and your back straight. Start slow with low knees, and begin lifting your knees higher as you warm up. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. Time for more squats for lower body strength. Squat slowly until your hips are about even with your knees. Extend your arms forward for balance. Remember to keep your knees behind your toes. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. Push-ups with twist can add variety to your upper body workout. To stay balanced, finish the push-up before starting the twist. If you cant stay straight from head to knees, bending at the hips, like Jillian is doing, lightens the weight on your arms. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. Bicycle crunches target your core. Keep your shoulder blades lifted off the floor to make sure youre working your upper abs. If its more comfortable, you can cradle your head in your hands. Dont forget to breathe. Ten seconds to go  three, two, one. Congratulations! You just completed your six-minute workout. Grab some water. In a few seconds, were going to cool down with two easy yoga stretches. This is the cat cow pose. Start in a tabletop position. As you inhale, arch your back and press your belly towards the floor. Then, exhale and round your spine towards the ceiling. Do this for 10 deep, slow breaths. Now lets finish in Shavasana. Empty your mind and relax into the floor. Take a moment to check in with your body and how it feels. Congratulate yourself for all you did today. Stay here for as long as you like.'