Skip to comments Response to Michael Moore 's , Open Letter to Bill Timmins , President Aladdin Casino and Hotel Me 7 21 04 Jayhawk5150 Posted on by Jayhawk5150 Response to Michael Moore 's , Open Letter to Bill Timmins , President Aladdin Casino and Hotel As you most likely know , Michael Moore posted the following letter After the letter , you will find the response Open Letter to Bill Timmins , President Aladdin Casino and Hotel http www michaelmoore com words index php \? id 93 Bill Timmins President Aladdin Casino and Hotel Las Vegas , NV July 20 , 2004 Dear Mr Timmins I understand from the news reports I 've read that , after Linda Ronstadt , one of America 's greatest singers , dedicated a song to me from your stage on Saturday night , you instructed your security guards to remove her from the Aladdin , which they did What country do you live in \? Last time I checked , Las Vegas is still in the United States And in the United States , we have something called The First Amendment This constitutional right gives everyone here the right to say whatever they want to say All Americans hold this right as sacred Many of our young people put on a uniform and risk their lives to defend it My film is all about asking the questions that should have been asked before those brave soldiers were sent into harms way For you to throw Linda Ronstadt off the premises because she dared to say a few words in support of me and my film , is simply stupid and Un American Frankly , I have never heard of such a thing happening I read that you would n't even let her go back up to her room at your hotel ! Are you crazy \? For crying out loud , it was a song DEDICATION ! To Desperado ! Every American loves that song ! Sure , some people did n't like the dedication , and that 's their right But neither they nor you have the right to remove her from your building when all she did was exercise her AMERICAN right to speak her mind Of all the things that go on in Las Vegas , this is what creates the need for serious action \? What about the other half of the crowd at the Aladdin who , according to the Las Vegas Sun , cheered her when she made her remarks \? Did you throw them out , too \? I think you owe Ms Ronstadt an apology And I have an idea how you can make it up to her and to the millions of Americans you have offended Invite her back and I 'll join her in singing America the Beautiful on your stage Then I will show Fahrenheit 9 11 free of charge to all your guests and anyone else in Las Vegas who wants to see it Mr Timmins , as the song Desperado says Come to your senses ! How can you refuse this offer \? I await your reply Yours , Michael Moore Director , Fahrenheit 9 11 Response July 21 , 2004 Attention Michael Moore , In response to your letter dated July 20 , 2004 You are correct that I had security remove Linda Ronstadt from Aladdin Casino and Hotel where the fun never ends and everybody wins How very interesting to learn you are such a fan of Ms Ronstadt You questioned where I live and surprisingly knew Las Vegas is in the United States You should visit it sometime There are thousands of wonderful 'All You Can Eat' buffets There are also a lot of casinos who 's owners do n't around I am aware of the First Amendment and you have the right to talk about your hatred of America but once you are on my property and you are upsetting my guests , you will quickly learn about my rights I ca n't remember if it was Jesus or George W Bush that said , Freedom is a two way street Ms Ronstadt learned this long before I had her thrown out of my casino You question my actions \? If you come onto my property and upset my guests , you will receive the same , if not worse , treatment than Ms Ronstadt received I am sure your mere presence would upset my guests You claim you film , is all about asking the questions that should have been asked before those brave soldiers were sent into harms way I think you film does nothing but aid the enemy and hurt our troops You have betrayed our troops , our leader and America I have no respect for you or your vision of what America should be I paid Ms Ronstadt to entertain my guests , not divide them The half that did not leave probably thought the verse you mentioned , Why do n't you come to your senses was addressed to you Maybe she should have dedicated her song , 'You 're No Good' to you I would have asked her back , had she done that Regarding your request for me to apologize to her , have you and her on my stage singing anything about this Country and then playing your piece of film is ludicrous ! One of my workers is currently throwing away every complaint letter from brainless followers of you , claiming they will never visit my Casino I could not be more pleased to know my casino and hotel will always be void of the kind of people who support you Meanwhile , my hotel has been quickly booked solid for the rest of the year with true Americans who love this Country and support our efforts overseas They will see a framed copy of your letter and my response in the lobby to ensure they begin their experience with a laugh Sincerely , Bill Timmins President Aladdin Casino and Hotel Las Vegas , NV TOPICS News Current Events Political Humor Cartoons KEYWORDS aladdin aladdincasino boycottaladdin boycotthollywood defundtheleft lasvegas lindaronstadt lumpyriefenstahl michaelmoore michaelmoore411 mikhailmoore notgenuine politicalhumor proterrorist satire Linda Rongstance got what she deserved ! To Jayhawk5150 This is a joke , right \? To Jayhawk5150 Oh if only it were true , if only it were true Laura Ingram I'm sure would read it aloud on the radio show by 3 posted onby SandRat \( Duty , Honor , Country What else needs to be said \? \) To Jayhawk5150 You questioned where I live and surprisingly knew Las Vegas is in the United States You should visit it sometime There are thousands of wonderful 'All You Can Eat' buffets by 4 posted onby Paleo Conservative \( Do not remove this tag under penalty of law \) To Jayhawk5150 Ah , Mikey baby , I really do n't think you knew who you were ing with The ACLU do n't run the casino biz , never have , never will And another little hint , it aint the boy scouts either To Paleo Conservative And the Alladin has the best buffet I 've ever eaten at and I live in Nevada ! To Straight Vermonter Yes , it is a joke but I doubt Timmins feels any different than what was posted To Jayhawk5150 If this was actually written by Timmins \( i e it 's not an internet forgery \) , then all I can say is , this guy kicks every ass , every where , all the time To SandRat We just got Laura in the Dallas area \( www ksky com \) but she is up against Glenn Beck and I am addicted to his show \( www klif com \) To SandRat Where did you find the response at \? To Jayhawk5150 Oh it 's a joke Damn you kids ! To Jayhawk5150 We got real LUCKY here in SE AZ They dumped a RDDB talk dork for Laura to lead in for Rush Then a week or so later they dumped some PsycoBabble Liberal Doc \( everything and anything is OK \) and gave us Laura Schlessinger the Dr Savage by 12 posted onby SandRat \( Duty , Honor , Country What else needs to be said \? \) To Jayhawk5150 If this is real , this guy is a national hero ! I 've never been to Las Vegas but I think I 'll take a trip up there just to stay in this man 's hotel by 13 posted onby McGavin999 \( If Kerry ca n't deal with the Republican Attack Machine how is he going to deal with Al Qaeda \) To Bush4304 ask JayHawk5150 it 's his posting Sure wish it were true though by 14 posted onby SandRat \( Duty , Honor , Country What else needs to be said \? \) To Jayhawk5150 Crazy Al Gore tried to claim that the 1st Amendment guarantees entertainers unfettered access to people 's wallets To randog And the Alladin has the best buffet I 've ever eaten at and I live in Nevada ! It 's my personal favorite It 's a tragedy that Planet Hollywood is taking over To Psycho Bunny LOL ! Sorry everyone I should have written , Suggested reply to Moore 's letter I Did n't mean to create a fib I registered here a long time ago but I have not been back in a while I have been battling the liberals over here http boards biography com forum jsp \? forum 494 I need to re learn how this board works It 's so big ! It is very refreshing to be around like minded people To Jayhawk5150 My Dear Mr Moore I cannot tell you how disppointed I was to find that MY viewpoint was NOT included in YOUR movie What country do you live in \? Last I checked , Hollywood was still part of the United States , and we have something called THE FIRST AMENDMENT Do I not have an equal right with you to have MY viewpoint screened \? What kind of brown shirted jack booted stunt are you trying to pull \? But now the deed has been done , there is no way to remake the movie There really is no way to make amends Perhaps I would be willing to settle for 10 of the take if accompanied by a simple apology With all \( and I do mean ALL \) due respect , Your baseball capped Michigan truck driving nemesis , Skinny Phil by 18 posted onby cookcounty \( LBJ sent him to VN Nixon expressed him home And JfK 's too dumb to tell them apart ! \) To Jayhawk5150 But neither they nor you have the right to remove her from your building when all she did was exercise her AMERICAN right to speak her mind Private property rights I do n't have to permit Michael Moore to come into my home and if a guest here starts spouting his antiAmerican BS , I am at liberty to throw that person out too The audience paid to see her sing , not to hear her preach politics She knows that this has been the response in the past Only this time it got press In the future , Republicans and Christians will be aware of her bigoted sentiments The casino faced a riot on their hands There have been riots at concerts over less inflammatory things Shut it down The theater has a serious liability on their hands when things turn ugly by 19 posted onby weegee \( Government does not solve problems it subsidizes them Ronald Reagan \) To Jayhawk5150 Not fair of you to play with our hopes like this is it a joke or not \? It true this guy is AWESOME by 20 posted onby Tamzee \( Flush the Johns before they flood the White House ! \) Disclaimer Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its management All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the exemption for fair use of copyrighted works FreeRepublic , LLC , PO BOX 9771 , FRESNO , CA 93794 FreeRepublic com is powered by software copyright 2000 2008 John Robinson