UPDATE BELOW: I've been Snopes-edRepublicans care so much about the Constitution they let Trump rewrite it. Changing the Bill of Rights on Whitehouse.gov to say "citizens" everywhere it says "people" or "person" in the original text. #Trump #WakeUp #DestroyingAmerica #DefilingTheConstitution #RewritingTheConstitution #TyrantInChiefSince posting this yesterday after seeing others tweet about it on Twitter, it appears that Snopes has mostly debunked this, although the White House website did indeed write "citizens" instead of "people". The wording however has existed in that form since the Obama Administration and it doesn't change the official draft of the Constitution. Still, with a President whose rhetoric is rude, inflammatory, divisive and genuinely appalling to millions of Americans and foreigners alike, who has repeatedly mocked people and Senators on Twitter like he's an adolescent bully, who has purposely disrespected and insulted foreign leaders, the fear and uncertainty that Trump tosses in people faces around the world is real. When people discover things like these wordings apparently narrowing the context of people's rights on the White House official website while Trump is bellowing of cracking down on travel and immigrants and he has been rhetorically trampling agreements and alliances with foreign countries like America's word means nothing if Trump decides he doesn't want to keep it, it provokes a primal fear in people. And when Trump supporters cheer him on and mock people who disagree with him calling them Snowflakes or needing safe spaces it perpetuates the idea that Trump and his supporters truly don't care about Americans or lawful, legal immigrants or anyone who believes differently. It sends the message that "you don't matter and we will gladly trample over your rights and leave you for dead because you cucks are wrong". And when we voice our fears and post things that we find that alarm us but we are reading too much into what we find, Trump supporters scream "FAKE NEWS" and go on their merry way ignoring and trampling your concerns and issues and views under their feet. So though the facts show that Trump didn't change the wording on the White House website but his words and actions match a radical swing in that direction. The point is real people see real things being said and done that is generating real, genuine fear. It's not paid for by George Soros or Move On and the fear in multiple millions of people's hearts is NOT fake news! Just sayin'.http://www.snopes.com/did-trump-alter-the-constitution/