My father, Ronald Reagan, held the presidency in such honor and reverencethat he was never in the Oval Office without a coat and tie. Bill Clinton hassuch disrespect for the presidency that he was often in the Oval Office withouthis pants.The president who thus exposed himself has now been exposed to the entireworld: Behold Bill Clinton, the shining hero of liberalism! Behold theself-anointed messiah of the progressive movement! Behold the leader of “the mostethical administration in history.”Though it is too early to say if he will be impeached, the jury is in onBill Clinton’s character. We know beyond a reasonable doubt that Bill Clintonis an out-of-control sexual predator who publicly posed as the feminists’ bestfriend while secretly using Monica Lewinsky.His real attitude toward women comes through loud and clear now.With their standard-bearer exposed as a yet-to-be-convicted felon, theDemocratic Party has no one to lift up as an example and a hero. So, in asqualid attempt to justify the most corrupt President in American history,Bill Clinton’s defenders now drag the entire history and tradition of thepresidency into the gutter. They have slimed Washington, Jefferson, FDR, Eisenhower,and even Ronald Reagan.Typical of these defenders of the indefensible is Mario Cuomo, who on CNN’s“Larry King Live” said, “I liked President Reagan. I certainly wouldn’thave trusted him if he said to me I never had an extramarital affair.” (Onbehalf of the Reagan family, I have publicly demanded an apology from former Gov.Cuomo. We shall see if he has the decency to offer one.)Those who claim the President’s sex life is personal and none of ourbusiness conveniently forget one thing: A President whose sex life is outrageous,out of control, and out of bounds is a threat not only to the nation’s morals, butto the nation’s security. During l’affair Lewinsky, Clinton was clearly awareof this fact, which underscores (if underscoring is needed) his utterrecklessness.In the 445-page Starr report, we read that Bill Clinton told MonicaLewinsky that “he suspected that a foreign embassy (he did not specify which one)was tapping his telephones, and he proposed cover stories. If everquestioned, she should say that the two of them were just friends. If anyone ever askedabout their phone sex, she should say that they knew their calls were beingmonitored all along, and the phone sex was just a put-on.”Does this sound like a man who is worthy to be the leader of the FreeWorld?The Code of Federal Regulations provides rules for issuing securityclearances. Is Bill Clinton qualified to hold the most sensitive national security postin our government? Read this excerpt from the federal regulations-and you tell me:Code of Federal Regulations, Title 32, Chapter 1, Part 147SEXUAL BEHAVIOR “Sexual behavior is a security concern if it involves a criminal offense,indicates a personality or emotional disorder, subjects the individual toundue influence or coercion, or reflects lack of judgment or discretion. “NOTE: The adjudicator should also consider guidelines pertaining tocriminal conduct (criterion J); or emotional, mental, and personality disorders(criterion I), in determining how to resolve the security concerns raisedby sexual behavior. “END NOTE: (Sexual orientation or preference may not be used as a basis foror a disqualifying factor in determining a person’s eligibility for a securityclearance.) “Conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifyinginclude: “(1) sexual behavior of a criminal nature, whether or not the individualhas been prosecuted; “(2) compulsive or addictive sexual behavior when the person is unable tostop a pattern of self-destructive or high-risk behavior or that which issymptomatic of a personality disorder; “(3) sexual behavior that causes an individual to be vulnerable to undueinfluence or coercion; “(4) sexual behavior of a public nature and/or that which reflects lack ofdiscretion or judgment.”Federal regulations couldn’t be more clear: Bill Clinton wouldn’t evenqualify for a national security clearance.Michael Reagan, a nationally syndicated radio talk show host, is the author of“The City on a Hill: Fulfilling Ronald Reagan’s Vision for America.”