b'His style as a leader is having to be a tough guy, Representative Peter T. King of New York, one of the presidents allies, said in an interview. You cant show any type of weakness. He doesnt want to show that this is getting the best of him.\n\nMr. Trump has exhibited this behavior all his life, friends and family members say. He learned it, they say, at home, particularly from his father, a disciplinarian who spent hundreds of millions of dollars financing his sons career and taught him to either dominate or submit. In Fred Trumps world, showing sadness or hurt was a sign of weakness.\n\nThe only thing that Trump ever cared about was he had this thing: Ive got to win. Teach me how to win, George White, a former classmate of Mr. Trumps at the New York Military Academy who spent years around both father and son, said in an interview.\n\nRecalling Freds hard-driving influence, Mr. White said that Mr. Trumps former school mentor, a World War II combat veteran named Theodore Dobias, once told him that he had never seen a cadet whose father was harder on him than his father was on Donald Trump. Fred Trump would visit nearly every weekend to keep watch over his son, Mr. White said.\n\nMr. Trumps father is still part of his life, said Andrew Stein, a former Manhattan borough president who has known the president for decades and has met regularly with him at the White House. Mr. Trump, he said, has often pointed up to the ceiling and referred to his father when they have been alone in the Oval Office. Hell look up to heaven, and say, Fred, can you believe this? Mr. Stein said.\n\nThis article is based on interviews with more than 20 of Mr. Trumps friends, political allies, administration members, family members, and current and former employees.\n\nFred Trumps domineering relationship with his children, and how that shaped his second son, is now the central animating force of the best-selling Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the Worlds Most Dangerous Man, by Ms. Trump, a clinical psychologist and Mr. Trumps only niece.'