TIMELINE: The McDole shooting caseWednesday, Sept. 23, 2015: Police shoot man in wheelchair, say he was armedAt about 3 p.m., Wilmington police officers responded to reports of a man in a wheelchair with a self-inflicted gunshot wound.A woman called 911 saying she heard two gunshots near the rear of an AutoZone at 1810 Lancaster Ave., according to an investigative report released Thursday by the state Department of Justice.The woman who made the 911 call flagged responding officers down and pointed to Jeremy "Bam” McDole saying, “He’s right there. He’s still got a gun."Two other officers soon arrived and encountered a civilian shouting about someone having a firearm, the report said. McDole, 28, was in a wheelchair, which he had used since being shot when he was 18.Video taken on a bystander’s cell phone as McDole was confronted shows Wilmington police officers, guns drawn, telling him to raise his hands in the air and receiving no compliance. A single shot can be heard but it’s unclear from the footage if McDole was hit.The officers — identified in the DOJ report as Senior Cpl. Danny Silva, Senior Cpl. Joseph Dellose, Cpl. Thomas Lynch and Cpl. James MacColl — continue to advance, all the while demanding a show of submission through raised hands. Instead, McDole moves his legs with his arms to adjust himself in his seat before he reaches into his pocket.Officers order McDole to “drop the gun” and continue ordering him to raise his hands. McDole repositions himself in his wheelchair and moves his hands onto the armrests. Less than a minute passes between the shotgun blast and the other three officers firing their weapons and killing McDole.An officer recovered an Armscor .38-caliber revolver with four spent and two unspent rounds, according to the DOJ report. The U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives determined the weapon was legally purchased in South Carolina in 2009 but was stolen from a truck from the last known owner, the report said.McDole’s body laid in the street for hours after the incident, draped in a white sheet and near the wheelchair he collapsed out of after being shot by four police officers. That’s how family and friends found the scene at the intersection of Tulip and Scott streets.They shouted down police Chief Bobby Cummings, who attempted to explain the situation to them and quiet their visible distress. A handful of family members crossed the police tape perimeter to approach McDole before officers turned them back. Police had to ask a man laughing as the group mourned and protested to leave the scene after family charged at him.Read more here.WARNING: Graphic videoThursday, Sept. 24, 2015: Family disputes police, says McDole had no gunPolice said they found a .38-caliber pistol at the scene, though family members said the weapon was planted to absolve the shooters.McDole’s mother, Phyllis, said her son did not have a weapon and would never harm himself. Relatives gathered later at McDole’s mother’s home on North Rodney Street where they disputed the police account.“He wasn’t bothering anybody. He didn’t have a weapon or anything,” said Phyllis McDole. “He stood up and pulled his pants up and sat back down and put his hands on his lap and they opened fire on him.”She said her son was a happy man who loved spending time with family, especially his nephew.“I raised my son to be a good kid,” she said. “He wasn’t a troublemaker. Every day he came here at 12 o’clock and took his nephew to the store to get water ice. What am I supposed to tell his nephew tomorrow when he doesn’t come to take him to get a water ice?”New Castle County Councilman Jae Street called the situation “potentially explosive” and wrote a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch to investigate the McDole killing. He also criticized the way policing is done in Wilmington, and concerns like his still are being discussed from street corners to mayoral debates."Community policing, under my definition right now, doesn't exist," Street said in the wake of McDole’s death and the nearly-riotous reaction of residents. "Community policing requires continuity of officers and interaction out of the car with the residents. We don't have that."Read more here.Thursday, Sept. 27, 2015: Wilmington starts to rallyCommunity activists called on the state’s attorney general to file charges against the officers involved. Their races now known to the public, the killing quickly take on racial overtones consistent with more than two years of flare ups across the country in which black men are shot and killed by police.A shooting in West Center City saw more than 300 people pour from their homes to confront officers on the scene. Police tried to push them back to establish a larger perimeter but instead were pelted with rocks and bottles. Three people were arrested.Just a few hours after that when officers armed with shotguns came to search a home near Jeremy McDole's mother’s house, neighbors mocked them from their stoops chanting “Hands up, hands up!”Monday, Sept. 28, 2015: Mother of man shot in wheelchair arrestedPhyllis McDole was arrested and charged with assault and threatening a woman she believed placed a 911 call saying a man had shot himself.Police say McDole, accompanied by five unidentified people, three women and two men, went to the woman’s home on Lancaster Avenue Friday between 7:30 and 8 p.m., punching and threatening the woman after she answered the front door.According to court documents, as McDole punched the resident, she said, “Bitch, you got my son killed. You are the one that called the cops. You got my son shot and you gonna die like my son died.”Police said the victim assaulted was not the woman who made the 911 call on the day her son was shot. The woman suffered two black eyes, a small scratch, swelling on her hand and a cut lip.Wednesday, Oct. 14, 2015: Family prepares for legal battleThe McDole family retained the Baltimore attorney that represented the family of Freddie Gray, a Baltimore man who died after suffering injuries in police custody on April 19, 2015. William H. “Billy” Murphy Jr. won a $6.9 million settlement last month for the Gray family. Murph says he hopes to bring justice to the family.Friday, Oct. 30, 2015: Jeremy McDole's family leads march, rally in WilmingtonAs friends and family of Jeremy McDole marched down the middle of the streets from Wilmington’s West Side and into Rodney Square, officers from the Wilmington Police Department guided the way, blocking traffic along the route.“No Justice, no peace, no racist police,” the group of about 50 chanted as they snaked from Fourth and Adams streets to Orange Street and into Rodney Square, carrying balloons and donning spray-painted red and black apparel emblazoned with the phrase “Justice for Bam.”Despite their message, police watched on. The two groups didn’t interact and the wish that the march and rally stay peaceful proved true.The October march was the first of several. By December, the family was calling for Cummings’ resignation. It conducted a traffic-blocking sit-in on Market Street in January.Read more here.Thursday, March 3: McDole family sues Wilmington over fatal police shootingThe grandmother and mother of Jeremy McDole sue the city of Wilmington, alleging that the deadly police shooting in September was prompted by racial discrimination and would not have happened had McDole been white."Before using deadly force, Jeremy McDole should have been talked down by a properly trained professional before a cowboy mentality seeped into police work," said the lawsuit filed in Superior Court in Wilmington.Both the city police and Attorney General Matt Denn’s office assured the public that they are investigating the shooting, but one of the attorneys representing the McDole family said it has been too long with no word.“It has been five months,” said attorney Thomas C. Crumplar. “The family just cannot wait. We still don’t even know the names" of the officers.A spokesman for Denn's office said investigations of police use of force have taken on average 9½ months since January 2010."The Department of Justice believes a thorough investigation of the death of Jeremy McDole is important for the family and for the community," spokesman Carl Kanefsky said. "That investigation remains active and underway and is expected to be completed in the near future."Later the same month, the city of Wilmington transferred the lawsuit from state court to federal court.Read more here.Friday, April 29: Court documents: McDole had gunshot residue on handMedical evidence revealed in a recent court filing says Jeremy McDole had gunshot residue on his hand and clothing when he was fatally shot by Wilmington police last fall – the first piece of information released since the incident to refute the family's claim that McDole was not armed.A Division of Forensic Science analysis found residue on the right palm and right shirt sleeve, according to a court affidavit signed by Wilmington police Detective George Pigforrd. The residue is consistent with that left on a person after firing a weapon and matches the DNA profile of McDole, the court documents said.The new court documents also identify for the first time the four officers involved in the incident. All four were on paid administrative leave.On May 4, the Wilmington NAACP chapter called on state officials to shed more light on the death.Wilmington police announced May 3 they'd completed the investigation, but did not elaborate on the findings.Thursday, May 12: Police officers in McDole shooting not chargedThe four Wilmington police officers were cleared in the shooting of Jeremy McDole, according to a report from the state Department of Justice.But the report, which found "serious deficiencies" in how Wilmington police prepares its force for such incidents, said prosecutors considered filing a felony assault charge against one of the officers involved – Dellose, who in a cellphone video that surfaced after the Sept. 23 incident was seen firing a shotgun at Jeremy McDole . Prosecutors considered the charge based on how Dellose immediately confronted him rather than communicating with officers who were already on the scene and how he discharged his shotgun."Although [the Department of Justice] is not able to pursue criminal charges against Senior Cpl. Dellose, it is DOJ's position that Senior Cpl. Dellose's conduct in this case was extraordinarily poor police work that endangered both the public and his fellow officers," the 31-page report said. "DOJ does not believe that Senior Cpl. Dellose should be employed by the Wilmington Police Department in any role where he would be carrying a firearm in public."Friday, May 13: AG's McDole report to help in federal civil suitWilmington Attorney Thomas S. Neuberger, who represents Jeremy McDole's family, said the report issued by the state Attorney General's Office would help in his federal civil case.Calling the report "historic" and "unprecedented" because of the information it provided, Neuberger said it included portions of interviews with the shooting officers explaining what they saw on Sept. 23 that caused them to fire at McDole. Some of those interviews, Neuberger said, contradict what is seen in a cellphone video that was modified by the FBI and provided in the report issued by Attorney General Matt Denn's office."Instead of closing off the investigation, Denn ... goes on and helps us make the civil case for us," Neuberger said.Friday, May 20: Confrontation marks McDole rally in WilmingtonA march to protest the shooting of 28-year-old Jeremy McDole by four Wilmington police officers, and the decision by the state Attorney General's Office to not prosecute the officers, threatened to explode when police blocked protesters from continuing to march on Market Street toward Rodney Square where children were participating in the annual Tennis in the Streets program.Officers, some who had been escorting marchers along the rally, confronted the protesters at Ninth and Market streets, instructing them to head down Ninth Street. When protesters insisted they wanted to continue on Market Street, additional officers arrived and stood shoulder-to-shoulder preventing protesters access to the 900 block of Market Street. A group of officers on motorcycles lined behind them, and at least one officer farther down the block was holding a teargas gun.Protesters continued to insult and yell at officers. Many pulled out cellphones and videoed the impasse.About 20 minutes later, protesters turned east onto Ninth Street.Tuesday, July 26: Phyllis McDole, mother of man shot by police, accepts plea dealJeremy McDole's mother, Phyllis, accepted plea deal in connection with the assault of a woman she believed placed the 911 call that eventually led to her son's death.McDole, 49, pleaded guilty July 26 to third-degree burglary. The state dropped additional charges for conspiracy, terroristic threats and assault in exchange for her plea.In October, she was sentenced to 45 days in prison, to be followed by 6 months of home confinement and a year of probation. She also was ordered to have no contact with the victim, to take her medications as prescribed and to comply with all recommended substance abuse and mental health treatment.She recently violated her probation and was being detained at Baylor Women's Correctional Institution. She has a violation of probation hearing scheduled for 9 a.m. Thursday.Monday, Sept. 19: Man who took McDole video claims he was never interviewedNate Wilson, the man who captured Jeremy McDole's fatal shooting on his cellphone camera, said in court documents for a civil suit that he was not interviewed by police investigating the incident. But a report issued earlier in the year, about the four Wilmington officers who shot McDole, indicate Wilson was interviewed by investigators with the state Department of Justice.In an affidavit filed Sept. 19 with U.S. District Court in Wilmington, Wilson said he was at work detailing a car when he heard two shots and ducked into the vehicle he'd been working on "to avoid being hit because I didn't know where the shots were coming from."Friday, Dec. 16: City pays $1.5 million to settle lawsuit with McDole familyThe city of Wilmington has agreed to pay $1.5 million to settle a lawsuit brought by the family of Jeremy "Bam" McDole, a man in a wheelchair who was fatally shot by four police officers in September of 2015.As part of the agreement, Wilmington police will consider a comprehensive use of force policy that will outline when force is appropriate and train officers in de-escalation procedures."If this isn't a piecrust promise but this is something that's going to come into being ... then Jeremy would not have died in vain," said Wilmington Attorney Thomas S. Neuberger, who represents McDole's family. "And members of the minority community and poor people in Wilmington, as well as throughout the state, will enjoy enhanced protections when they encounter police."Friday, Jan. 6: No federal charges in cop shooting of McDoleFederal authorities concluded there is no evidence that four Wilmington officers "willfully used excessive force" in the 2015 fatal shooting of Jeremy "Bam" McDole.Because of that, the U.S. Department of Justice said on Friday it would not pursue federal criminal civil rights charges against Wilmington police Senior Cpl. Danny Silva, Cpl. Thomas Lynch, Cpl. James MacColl or Senior Cpl. Joseph Dellose. The announcement came as a blow to the McDole family, which has been seeking a criminal indictment against the officers, said Thomas S. Neuberger, one of the attorneys representing McDole's family."The family strongly disagrees and are greatly disappointed with the conclusions and still feels a criminal prosecution would be warranted," Neuberger said.