One thing that Socialist Bernie Sanders will tell you, ad nauseum, is that the rich have too much. They live like kings, and don’t spread that wealth to the masses of people who work for them. He will point to fast food workers, who put lettuce and pickles on burgers all day, and say that it’s not right that a person has to work forty hours per week still can’t make ends meet.menu has been obtained by New York Times best selling author, Conservative commentator, and former Secret Service Agent Dan Bongino has been obtained by New York Times best selling author, Conservative commentator, and former Secret Service Agent, in which only the humblest of food choices were offered to ‘average Joe’ candidate, Bernie Sanders.Take a look at how the Socialist elite is eating, but keep in mind a few things as you do.Bernie Sanders has never built his own successful business, or come up with his own entrepreneurial idea.could not hack it in the private sector Bernie Sandersshould be spreading the wealth around Bernie Sanders thinks the wealthy have too much andBernie Sanders has been living off of income provided by the hard work and taxes of others for decades.Now let’s see what a public servant who riles against the wealthy is eating during his private jet flight to Rome to meet the Pope.In the “ Settling In ” section, we haveCoriander crab salad with lemon poached prawns and lime creme.In the “ Starters ” section, Bernie could have a nice bowl of:Red lentil soup with lime and cilantro cream.For his “ Main Course ,” Mr. Man of the People himself, could have:Herb crusted lamb loin lemon risotto, braised endives and olives in a wild mushroom sauce.You know, just your average lamb loin that mom used to make when you were growing up. Nothing elitist here.For dessert, Sanders, who seems to have antipathy for the 1% of the country and the way they live, could top off his meal with:A selection of fine cheeses. Montero, Royale Morbier, and Fourme D’ambert. Of course, these fine cheeses will be offered with fresh fruit, and ONION JAM.Did you even know onion jam existed? Bernie Sanders apparently did.All this is to say, that this proves the point that Socialism and Communism do not spread the wealth among the people. If you are a Sanders supporter, you aren’t going to get a check for any amount from the Sanders administration after he gets elected.What happens in a Socialist and Communist regime, is that the people work for the government, rather then themselves. Their efforts, their work, their ideas go towards making sure the elites in the federal government will be able to live like kings, and continue to have a full bar available to them while they are spreading onion jam on whatever you spread onion jam on.