Senator Clinton Answers Reporters’ QuestionsMARCH 25, 2008Continue reading the main storyThe following is the transcript of a news conference with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, as provided by CQ Transcriptions.CLINTON: Well, as I said earlier, Social Security is a big issue in this campaign. There are differences between myself and Senator Obama, and there are very big differences between myself and John McCain.And I have to admit to being somewhat surprised when I saw that Senator McCain had said that he would try to continue to privatize Social Security along the lines of what President Bush tried and failed in doing in 2005. And, you know, that is a very significant difference between the two of us.So I'd be glad to take your questions.QUESTION: How important is Social Security to the residents of western Pennsylvania? We saw a lot of older people here, and as we interviewed them we asked and they said that was a big issue. So how important is that?AdvertisementContinue reading the main storyCLINTON: Well, it's a big issue across the country. But Pennsylvania, as you know, has a higher percentage of older people than most states. So it's a particular concern to a lot of Pennsylvanians, who are on Social Security, you know, like the couple that we heard from earlier today who keep seeing their expenses increase and realize that they are in a very difficult position trying to afford all of the necessities of life and being on a fixed income like they are.Continue reading the main storyThat's why it's so important that we do everything we can to meet the long-term challenges of Social Security. The Social Security trustees just issued a report, actually while I was speaking, and there has been some improvement in the outlook for Social Security, according to the Social Security trustees. So I think that it reinforces what I've said for a long time, which is that we have some long-term challenges, it is not a crisis, we can fix what's, you know, needing to be changed in Social Security. Our real challenge is Medicare, which is much more in crisis and deserves closer attention.QUESTION: Now that Senator Obama has released his tax returns, will you release yours prior to April 15th, and will you release the entire documents along with the schedules and everything?CLINTON: Well, I anticipate being able to release them shortly, I hope within the next week. And I am pleased that Senator Obama has released his tax returns. I think that's a good first step. Now he should release his records from being in the state senate and any other information that the public and the press need to know from his prior experience, because I think that, you know, we should continue to make available the information that we have. And I will be releasing my tax returns.QUESTION: Should Barack Obama have left his church after Jeremiah Wright made the comments that he did?CLINTON: Well, I answered a question in an ed board today that was very specific about what I would have done. And, you know, I'm just speaking for myself. And I was answering a question that was posed to me.But I think, given all we have heard and seen, he would not have been my pastor.I gave a speech at Rutgers, about a year ago, that was triggered by the Don Imus comments.And I said that it was time for standing up for what is right, for saying enough is enough, for urging that we turn a culture of degradation into a culture of empowerment, for saying that, while we, of course, must protect our right to freedom of expression, it should not be used as a license or an excuse to demean and humiliate our fellow citizens.Senator Obama spoke eloquently, at that time, as well.You know, we don't have a choice when it comes to our relatives. We have a choice when it comes to our pastors and the churches we attend.Everyone will have to decide these matters for themselves. They are obviously very personal matters. But I was asked what I would do if he were my pastor. And I said I think the choice would be clear for me.AdvertisementQUESTION: Are you not satisfied with Senator Obama's explanation about his relationship with his pastor, in his speech, then?CLINTON: I was asked what I would do.QUESTION: Are you not satisfied with his response...CLINTON: Well, that's a question that goes to him. I was asked what I would do. And I answered what I would do.QUESTION: Senator, now that you're talk about this a little more publicly than you have, does this mean this is on the table, when you talk to superdelegates?Is it on the table in the Democratic primary?CLINTON: I was asked what I would do. And I answered the question.QUESTION: I'm with the student newspaper, and we had a mock election here. And Obama took it. Why do you think that your numbers aren't as strong with young people?And why do you think young people should vote for you?CLINTON: Well, I think they're getting better. You know, I was very pleased at the reception that I've gotten here in Pennsylvania. And, you know, I did very well with young people in Ohio, Massachusetts, California.I think, in the course of this campaign, over the next month, we'll be reaching out to young people.And this is an exciting election. It's wonderful that more young people are getting involved. I understand that there was an increase in registration for young people in Pennsylvania. So I intend to do everything I can to win as many votes as possible.But I think I've put forth very specific plans as to what I would do as president to deal with a lot of the problems that young people talk to me about, whether Social Security will be there, whether they'll be able to afford health care when they're no longer on their parents' policy, assuming that their parents have health insurance, how they'll afford college, what's going to happen in Iraq.AdvertisementContinue reading the main storyCLINTON: So, I have been very specific and I'll continue to do so because I don't think that this should be just about the next election; I think it should be about the next generation.QUESTION: You misspoke regarding your trip to Bosnia, presumably about the sniper fire and running into the cars.After looking at the CBS video, that didn't -- exactly wasn't what happened.But on February 29th, when we were in Waco, you gave a similar account saying that there was sniper fire and that you were running into cars.Did you misspeak again, and what exactly -- how are Americans supposed to, sort of, take what happened here?CLINTON: You know, I made a mistake in describing it. I have said many times, I've talked about this many times that we were, you know, very much told by the Secret Service and the military that we were going into a war zone and that we had to be conscious of that. I was the first first lady taken into a war zone since Eleanor Roosevelt.And, you know, I think that the military and the Secret Service did a terrific job. But we certainly did take precautions. There is no doubt about that, and I remember that very clearly.But I did make a mistake in talking about it the last time and recently.But, look, this is really about what policy experience we have and who's ready to be commander in chief. And I'm happy to put my experience up against Senator Obama's any day.QUESTION: The people of Pennsylvania really support Ed Rendell and a lot of people are wondering what you think of him and if there's a possibility this he may be one of your choices for a running-mate, if you would secure the nomination.AdvertisementContinue reading the main storyCLINTON: Well, it would be premature for me to talk about something like that but I am a big fan of Ed Rendell. I have been an admirer of his work when he was mayor of Philadelphia, now as governor. He has been visionary, effective, strong, provided the kind of leadership that Pennsylvania clearly has responded to very positively.And he's been ahead on a lot of the issues that are important from home foreclosures to energy. And I just think that he is an exceptional leader and I'm proud to have him on my team and leading my campaign in Pennsylvania.QUESTION: Republicans now saying that it's a pattern of exaggeration on Bosnia with the three events that they sent out with the same kind of story.How do you respond to that claim, that this is sort of a pattern that's developed?CLINTON: Well, I just disagree with that. You know, look, I made a mistake. And, you know, I had a different memory. And, you know, my staff and others have, you know, all kind of come together trying to sort out. So I made a mistake. That happens. It proves I'm human, which, you know, for some people, is a revelation.(LAUGHTER)QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) I'm curious what it was like to be inside the right-wing conspiracy?(LAUGHTER)Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.Sign UpYou agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.Thank you for subscribing.An error has occurred. Please try again later.You are already subscribed to this email.Opt out or contact us anytimeCLINTON: It was actually very pleasant. We had a wide-ranging discussion about a lot of domestic and foreign policy issues. And, you know, I said in the beginning when I arrived that it was obviously, somewhat counter intuitive for me to be there but it was a good discussion.QUESTION: You know, there are some in Washington who are saying the race is over. And some in the media are saying the race is over. And you made to say that you're going on. Are you receiving pressure to get out of the race or are you feeling...CLINTON: No, but I hear it in the atmosphere.CLINTON: But the most common thing that people say to me, it happened here, it happened last night, it happens everywhere now, is, "Don't give up, keep going. We're with you." And I feel really good about that because that's what I intend to do.QUESTION: Senator, can you talk about Tibet at all? Are you concerned about what's going on there?CLINTON: I am.Continue reading the main storyQUESTION: And specifically, should the U.S. consider not going to China for the Olympics as a result of this?CLINTON: Look, I think that what's happening in Tibet is deeply troubling. And this is a pattern of the Chinese government with respect to their treatment of Tibet. I actually raised that issue with Chinese leadership going back a number of years.I don't think we should wait until the Olympics to make sure that our views are known. And I think we should be speaking out through our administration now in a much more forceful way and, you know, supporting people in Tibet who are trying to preserve their culture and their religion from tremendous pressure by the Chinese.QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)CLINTON: Let's wait on that. I don't have an opinion about that.QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) home foreclosures and said that -- I don't know if you've seen the quote, but he said it is not the duty of the government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly, whether they be big banks or small borrowers. He basically was saying we should wait until the government steps in.We certainly heard your remarks yesterday, but what do you think about Senator McCain's?CLINTON: Well, it sounds remarkably like Herbert Hoover. And I don't think that's a good economic policy. You know, we have a framework of regulation. It needs to be updated and modernized.The government has a number of tools at its disposal that are well-suited for just this situation.CLINTON: And I think that inaction has contributed to the problems we face today. And I believe further inaction would exacerbate those problems.So I laid out what I would do, and I don't think it's an adequate response to say the government shouldn't be helping either banks or people. Because I think that would be a downward spiral that would cause tremendous economic pain and loss in our country. And I don't see why we should wait by for that to happen.QUESTION: Your campaign and your -- you and your campaign have been talking about Florida and Michigan, saying that Obama wants to disenfranchise voters there by not backing re-votes.AdvertisementContinue reading the main storyIf this ends up going to the convention and the superdelegates decide, how is that not disenfranchising voters?CLINTON: Well, look, I think that what we have to wait and see is what happens in the next three months. And there's been a lot of talk about what-if, what-if, what-if. Let's wait until we get some votes.People are going to vote, over the next months. Millions of people are going to vote. And we should wait and see the outcome of those votes.QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)CLINTON: No, no, I didn't say that.QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)CLINTON: I was joking. I mean, you know, gosh, lighten up, guys. I mean, obviously, come on. I say millions of words every week, and there's a lot more, you know, room for error when you're talking as much as I'm talking, but, no.QUESTION: For the government to buy mortgages or even guarantee them, that's going to cost money. How do you do that and still be fiscally responsible, without, you know, increasing the deficit?CLINTON: Well, there are two things about that. One is, you know, the fund that I have proposed would be part of the stimulus package. Because I think we need a second stimulus, because we didn't do anything about housing, despite, you know, my strong urging that we do. And then it's important to realize that the plan that Barney Frank and Chris Dodd have talked about could very well be self- financing over time, so that, you know, within a certain number of years, the Treasury -- the budget would not be out any money.But that's why I want to bring in some outside experts, like I suggested yesterday, to help plan this.CLINTON: Because, obviously, this is uncharted waters. We haven't done anything like since the Great Depression when an agency was created and it did buy mortgages. We're not at that point yet. The congressional proposal is to auction them off to private buyers. I have my doubts as to whether that would work, so we need a backstop for some kind of a government purchasing potential as well.But I think you could do this over time in a way that was not damaging to the federal budget.Now, obviously, we have a lot of other damage we have to clean up inherited from President Bush and the Republican Congress. But I think this could be managed effectively.AdvertisementContinue reading the main storyQUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) a step further, though, by saying that the federal housing authority could buy (OFF-MIKE).CLINTON: Right. Well, what I said is that I think that should be considered. You know, I support what Senator Dodd and Congressman Frank have proposed, but I'm just not convinced that it alone will work. I think it's part of a plan, but not the complete plan. That's why I want to get this emergency working group to come in and try to give us the best suggestions about how to proceed.I personally think we will have to have as a backstop the ability of the FHA or some federal entity to be able to buy, because you don't even know how many buyers are out there.And, remember, what we're asking is that people come in and bid in an auction on buying these mortgages. They have to believe, the people bidding, that they can make money out of it.The way you would have to make the money is that you'd have to negotiate with homeowners to help them get a payment plan that would actually keep them in their homes and give you a revenue stream that would be profitable.A lot of the potential buyers have no capacity to do that. You know, a hedge fund doesn't have people who can go out and talk to home buyers. They'd have to put that together. Whereas, the FHA and the government would be able much more easily to provide those services.So I think that the number and type of potential buyers in such an auction might not be sufficient for what it is we're facing.CLINTON: And that's why I thought there should be the back-up from the government to be able to buy and work out those mortgages by the government.QUESTION: Questioning or discussing someone's relationship with their pastor is a very personal matter. And as you know, there are some Democrats who are concerned about the tone of the campaign being negative, being personal. Are those concerns justified?AdvertisementAnd do your remarks which you carefully -- which you are careful to read...CLINTON: Right.QUESTION: Do you think those concerns are justified?CLINTON: Well, as I said, it is a very personal matter. And I was asked a personal question. And I responded as to what I would have done. And, you know, everybody has to answer that for themselves because it is a personal consideration. And obviously, you take into all -- into account all kinds of factors.But when asked a direct question, I gave a direct answer. And I feel very comfortable with that. I don't think that's negative. That's what I would have done. And other people can evaluate that for themselves and make their own conclusions as to what they would have done.CLINTON: Thank you.