EXCLUSIVE Anderson Cooper interview with Charles Ramsey Tonight on AC360 , Charles Ramsey the man who freed Amanda Berry , Georgina DeJesus and Michele Knight , spoke with Anderson Cooper Ramsey tells Cooper that his neighbor of about a year was cool , he was no freak of nature but yesterday he heard a girl scream like a car had hit her kid Amanda Berry told him I 've been trapped in here and he wo n't let me out It 's me and my baby Berry , he tells Cooper was well groomed She did n't look like she was kidnapped That 's what threw me off Ramsey says he does n't feel like a hero , and when asked about a rumored reward , he shows Cooper his paycheck and says give it to them \( the girls \) Video link to the interview and rough transcript below Please credit all usage to Anderson Cooper 360 THIS IS A RUSH FDCH TRANSCRIPT IT MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED COOPER Well , I just came back from interviewing Charles Ramsey just a short time ago Here 's some of that interview \( BEGIN VIDEOTAPE \) COOPER And so you moved in about a year ago You 'd seen Ariel Castro around , right \? CHARLES RAMSEY When I moved there , only because he was my neighbor COOPER Right RAMSEY You know what I mean \? COOPER What was he like \? RAMSEY Cool He was n't no freak of nature He was like me and you , because he talked about the same things you talk about COOPER Right RAMSEY You talk about you You know what I mean \? You know , regular stuff , bro COOPER So yesterday , what happened \? RAMSEY I'm going to tell it all Around 3 00 , I was on my porch and the mailman put his mail in my mail I looked at it like here 's his mail when he come home Couple of minutes later , he pulled up He checked the mailbox , grabbed his paper Before he went in the house , I said Ariel , here goes your mail We just had the same conversation when I hand him the mail He said , they ca n't get it right I said , damn postal service That 's it He left I jumped on my bike , went to McDonald 's Came back home , I'm in my house , but I'm in the living room and I'm right by the front door , because I'm looking out the front door , and man , this girl screamed like a car had hit a kid , which made me , you know , stop eating , what the hell was that You know , so when I got up , I saw this my neighbor across the street , he run across the street and I'm , like I'm thinking , where you going , because ai n't nobody next door because I just saw Ariel leave And I know ai n't nobody over there Heard that girl scream and saw him run across the street , and I went outside and wondered what he was doing , and Amanda said , I'm stuck in here , help get me out So he guy do n't know English that well or panicked , he just looked at me and it 's a girl And that 's all he did So here I come with my , you know , half eaten Big Mac and I looked and I said well , what 's up And she 's like I 've been trapped in here , he wo n't let me out , me and my baby I said well , we ai n't going to talk no more , come on I'm trying to get the door open , I ca n't , because he torture chambered it some kind of way and locked it up , right \? So I did what I had to do and kicked the bottom of the door , and she crawled out of it She grabs her baby , which threw me off , all right , so fine I got some girl and her kid COOPER What did she look like \? I mean , what was she wearing \? RAMSEY Jumpsuit She had a white tank top on , rings on , mascara You know , she was well groomed She did n't look like she was kidnapped That 's what I'm saying That 's what threw me off She was like I'm in here trapped I'm like , well , you do n't look kidnapped so maybe you got a boyfriend problem But I'm thinking I know who lives here and he 's 50 something You ca n't be the boyfriend problem You know \? It ca n't be him Maybe you 're dating his son COOPER And you 'd never seen her before \? RAMSEY Bro COOPER In the year that you had been there \? RAMSEY Bro , that man , listen , never That woman did n't come out the house The only kids that came out the house were two little girls They played in the backyard He had two dogs and my where I live naturally is next door , my bedroom was upstairs so when I hear kids playing , I know it 's them They did the same thing , play in the backyard for a couple of hours , go back in the house Same thing every day The neighborhood knows them as his grandchildren So no big deal He had his grandkids over all the time , I thought COOPER Amanda Berry then , what , asked to call 911 \? RAMSEY Mm hmm And I took her to my house Now I'm nervous as hell so I'm fumbling with my phone , so I finally get it right She ca n't wait and I do n't blame her So what I do was tell her go across the street and use their phone Now we 're both calling 911 Now she gets through and I get through She deal with a moron , me , too COOPER You said there what do you mean , a moron \? RAMSEY Idiot COOPER I heard the 911 call for her RAMSEY Imbecile COOPER And the woman kept RAMSEY Should n't have a damn job COOPER The woman was like hang up and wait for the police RAMSEY Really How about stay on and I will talk to you until they get there \? COOPER Right \( END VIDEOTAPE \) COOPER That 's Charles Ramsey I 'll have more of my interview with Charles Ramsey after this break Let us know what you think Follow me on Twitter right now andersoncooper So many questions still to be answered here Also ahead , we 're going to hear from a young woman who along with her friends once called 911 because they say they saw a naked woman in the suspect 's backyard She says police thought they were joking , did n't take it seriously We 'll be right back \( COMMERCIAL BREAK \) \( BEGIN VIDEO CLIP \) RAMSEY Heard her screaming , I'm eating my McDonald 's , I come outside , and I see this girl going nuts trying to get out of a house So I go on the porch I go on the porch and she says , help me get out , I 've been here a long time So you know , I figured it 's a domestic violence dispute So I opened the door and we ca n't get in that way because how the door is , it 's so much that a body ca n't fit through , only your hand So we kicked the bottom and she comes out with a little girl , and she says call 911 , my name is Amanda Berry \( END VIDEO CLIP \) COOPER If not for the actions of Charles Ramsey and another neighbor who helped him , the three women may still be in that house here in Cleveland Here 's more of my exclusive interview with Charles Ramsey \( BEGIN VIDEOTAPE \) COOPER So you call 911 RAMSEY Sure did COOPER How quickly did the police get there \? RAMSEY You know what , they got there so fast because I said moron Because I said hey , Amanda Berry is right in front of me right now Here 's what she got on and I told him white tank top , blue sweatpants , nice tennis shoes , nice ponytail What else \? Oh , right She 's panicking , idiot Put yourself in her shoes Like I said , Amanda Berry , that do n't ring no damn bells , you being a cop and all \? COOPER But you when you first saw her and she said the name Amanda Berry , did it RAMSEY It did n't I did n't know Because I forgot Bro , this is Cleveland Since they have n't found that girl COOPER Right RAMSEY And I guess stopped looking for that girl , we figured that girl was met her demise COOPER Right RAMSEY So Berry did n't register with me until I was on the phone like , wait a minute , I thought this girl was dead COOPER What does it what does it feel like to have been living next to this for a year \? RAMSEY See , that 's why now I'm having trouble sleeping See , up until yesterday , the only thing that kept me from losing sleep was the lack of money See what I'm saying \? So now that that 's going on , and I could have done this last year , not this hero stuff , just do the right thing COOPER Do you feel like a hero \? RAMSEY No COOPER Because there 's a lot of people , they 're saying you 're a hero \( CROSSTALK \) RAMSEY No , no , no Bro , I'm a Christian , an American , and just like you We bleed same blood , put our pants on the same way It 's just that you got to put that being a coward , and I do n't want to get in nobody 's business You got to put that away for a minute COOPER Because you know how it is There 's a lot of people who turn away \( CROSSTALK \) RAMSEY You have to have cajones , bro COOPER Keep walking down on the street RAMSEY That 's all what it 's about It 's about cajones on this planet COOPER Has the FBI said anything about a reward or anything \? Because there was that there was a reward for finding her RAMSEY I tell you what you do , give it to them Because if folks been following this case since last night , you been following me since last night , you know I got a job anyway Just went picked it up , paycheck What that address say \? That say \? COOPER I do n't have my glasses I'm blind as a bat RAMSEY 2203 Seymour Where are them girls living \? Right next door to this paycheck So yes , take that reward and give it to that little girl came out the house and she was crying And I'm looking at her , right , I'm like your mama trying to help you , girl , shut up I do n't know , right And she 's like I want my daddy And I said , who 's her daddy \? She said Ariel COOPER She said that RAMSEY Yes I said well , how 's that possible \? Because you would n't if you got kidnapped , he was having sex with you \? Oh , Jesus That little girl is his \? Now we want to hurt you COOPER You felt that \? RAMSEY Bro , this will be a different interview , I told you that , if we had known that Man , I would be facing triple life COOPER Wow I'm glad it turned out this way \( END VIDEOTAPE \) COOPER Charles Ramsey \( END \)