GLOBALPUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTwww.8march2003.comOn this date an astounding discovery will be revealed to the worldO n March 8th 2003 something extraordinary will be posted on this siteS omething that could have Global implicationsS omething that will make you want to rethink your future ...My story:Due to reasons you will come to understand as you read on I cannot reveal my identity at this time. Some months ago while trekking through a mountain range on an amateur photo shoot during my holidays, my attention was taken by a glint of light from under a shrub. I discovered it was the suns reflection off a piece of broken glass.PHOTOglass lensBy the curved polished surface on one side I thought it might have been from some type of magnifying lens. I rummaged around under the shrub wondering if someone had dropped their binoculars, but instead, to my surprise I found a badly damaged camera lens. I looked at the piece of glass in my hand. It was a fragment from the shattered lens. Beyond the shrub was a stony terrain that lead to the rock face of a sheer cliff towering high above the area. I spotted some other parts of the lens scattered between the rocks. Then I found the main body of the camera. It was an Olympus OM40 SLR, which was in production during the early eighties. The entire camera was smashed and covered in a silvery soot-like powder, as if it had been thrown onto a fire. Yet, on closer inspection, there was some oxidization on parts of the exposed metal casing. It had obviously been there for quite some time.PHOTOscorched camera PHOTOBack of cameraMy first thought was that someone must have dropped the camera from the top of the cliff causing it to shatter on the rocks below, and that there must have been a raging fire through the valley at some stage. Taking a closer look at my surroundings there were no signs of recent fires. Had someone tried to destroy the camera by burning it? When I sniffed the soot it had a pungent explosives-like smell to it. I turned it over and wiped the film cartridge display window. The hair on the back of my neck stood on end. There was still film in the camera.It was late evening by the time I arrived home some days later. I'd been having mysterious dreams about the camera every night since I found it. Overwhelmed with curiosity and excited anticipation, I immediately took the camera to my darkroom. I had to pry the back open with a screwdriver as the plastic section of the outer casing had melted then solidified over the cover. Most of the film was badly damaged, parts of it having disintegrated due to extreme heat. I developed the strips of film that were salvageable. Nearly all of the negatives were color distorted. The images on the film sent chills down my spine. When I finally developed the photos and blew them up, I couldn't believe what I was seeing. It made me wonder what the hell was about to happen on the planet!PHOTOdamaged negatives