b'Costco Wholesale said on Thursday that its net sales rose 7.3 percent to $36.5 billion in its quarter ending May 10 and that it posted a net profit of $838 million, as the pandemic prompted customers to stock up on goods. The warehouse chain, which has more than 500 U.S. locations, said its income took a hit from a $283 million pretax charge from incremental wage and sanitation costs related to Covid-19.\n\nJ.C. Penney, the 118-year-old retailer that filed for bankruptcy this month, said on Thursday that it has reopened 304 of its stores, roughly one-third, and plans to have almost 500 stores open by June 3. The chain said that it was offering curbside pickup at its opened stores and special shopping hours for at-risk customers on Wednesdays and Fridays.\n\nThe British low-price airline easyJet said on Thursday that it planned to reduce staff by up to 30 percent and that it expected to fly in the July-September period at nearly 30 percent of the capacity a year earlier. When flights restart, staff and passengers will be required to wear masks and, at least initially, no onboard food service will be offered, the company said.\n\nIt wasnt a total blackout, but for one minute on Wednesday night, a cluster of billboards in the northern section of Times Square went dark. The shut-off was designed to pressure insurance companies to cover pandemic-related losses incurred by businesses. The effort was coordinated by the Business Interruption Group, which was founded by celebrity chefs including Wolfgang Puck and Thomas Keller along with a Louisiana lawyer who has helped sue several insurers over the scope of their policies during the coronavirus crisis.\n\nThe activist investor Carl Icahn sold his 55 million-share stake in the car rental giant Hertz, in what he described in a securities filing on Wednesday as a significant loss. The Hertz stock had traded at $15 per share for months before spiking in February and then crashing, resulting in a bankruptcy filing last week. Mr. Icahn sold the shares at $0.72 each.'