b'St. Paul, Minnesota - 7 July 2016 1. Various of Diamond Reynolds speaking to group 2. SOUNDBITE (English) Diamond Reynolds, Girlfriend of Shooting Victim: I want Governor Mark Dayton to allow these people who are licensed to carry to have more rights, if we are able to bear license to carry then a police officer should not be able to gun a man down for no reason. Also I would like for him to get more involved in these police officers, they have mental problems, they have battles that theyre fighting, so when theyre coming out here to serve and protect, theyre not serving or protecting nothing because they are damaged from all the past and previous people they killed. KSTP - COURTESY KSTP, NO ACCESS MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL Falcon Heights, Minnesota - 6 July 2016 ++NIGHT SHOTS++ 3. Various of crowds in street following shooting KSTP - COURTESY KSTP, NO ACCESS MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL St. Paul, Minnesota - 7 July 2016 4 . SOUNDBITE (English) Diamond Reynolds, Girlfriend of Shooting Victim: We got pulled over what allegedly was supposed to be a broken tail light, when he let us know we had a broken tail light he asked us were we aware of it, we said no. As we said no, he tell us to put our hands in the air, we have our hands in the air. At the time as our hands in the air, he asked for license and registration. My boyfriend carries all his information in a thick wallet in his right side back pocket. As hes reaching for his back pocket wallet, he lets the officer know, officer I have a fire arm on me I begin to yell but hes licensed to carry. After that, he began to take off shots, boom, boom, boom, dont move, dont move, but how can you not move when youre asking for license and registration, its either you want my hands in the air or you want my information and my identification. KSTP - COURTESY KSTP, NO ACCESS MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL Falcon Heights, Minnesota - 6 July 2016 ++NIGHT SHOTS++ 5 . Various of crowds in street following shooting KSTP - COURTESY KSTP, NO ACCESS MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL St. Paul, Minnesota - 7 July 2016 6 . SOUNDBITE (English) Diamond Reynolds, Girlfriend of Shooting Victim: He (Philando Castile) was never a bad man, he never did anything to hurt anyone, he was the quietest, most laid back person you will ever meet, he was loving. So even for the police to take him away, nothing within his body language said intimidation, nothing within his body said shoot me, nothing within his body language said kill me I want to be dead. He did not do nothing but what the police officer asked of us, which was to put your hands in the air and get your license and registration. 7. Various of Reynolds leaving area surrounded by family'