Those you who compare the amount of potassium in bananas to the Fukushima release or who minimize the effects of the radiation really need to see this.Here’s a “see if you can stomach it” video from Steven Starr, Director of the Clinical Laboratory Science Program at the University of Missouri and is an Associate member of the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and has been published by the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. His writings appear on the websites of PSR, the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies, Scientists for Global Responsibility, and the International Network of Scientists Against Proliferation. Since 2007, he has worked with the governments of Switzerland, Chile, and New Zealand, in support of their efforts at the United Nations to eliminate thousands of high-alert, launch-ready nuclear weapons.Meanwhile, if you’re one of dozens of websites that have reposted my original article, you may freely repost this one with my permission, as even though may work is also copyrighted, anyone is free to repost it with a credit back to this website.Meanwhile, if you’re one of dozens of websites that have reposted my original article, you may freely repost this one with my permission, as even though may work is also copyrighted, anyone is free to repost it with a credit back to this website.Meantime, I have removed every quote and every link from that website, replacing them with other links and information that I believe do not affect the article whatsoever. This new version will stay up at this point. I’ll keep you posted on any new developments.Meantime, I have removed every quote and every link from that website, replacing them with other links and information that I believe do not affect the article whatsoever. This new version will stay up at this point. I’ll keep you posted on any new developments.The quotes were used in a transformative use with an entirely different summationAs many of you know, CIC is a non-commercial and educational 501(c)3 organization. I stand by the use of the quotes from that website because I feel that it falls within “Fair Use” parameters because we were acting in a “news reporting” mode providing commentary for the purpose of informing the public. Determination of whether copyright infringement has taken place can ultimately only be decided in a federal court. In the meantime, the legal department of my webhost, bluehost, has sent me an email stating that I must remove the article within 48 hours or they will take my website down. I’ll be contacting my attorney next and then issue a statement to them about fair use regulations. Here’s why this falls under fair use:As many of you know, CIC is a non-commercial and educational 501(c)3 organization. I stand by the use of the quotes from that website because I feel that it falls within “Fair Use” parameters because we were acting in a “news reporting” mode providing commentary for the purpose of informing the public. Determination of whether copyright infringement has taken place can ultimately only be decided in a federal court. In the meantime, the legal department of my webhost, bluehost, has sent me an email stating that I must remove the article within 48 hours or they will take my website down. I’ll be contacting my attorney next and then issue a statement to them about fair use regulations. Here’s why this falls under fair use:I have been accused of plagiarism and copyright violation from a source website (see the accusation here ) in spite of the message on the website that says, “DUST OFF YOUR BLOGS AND GET ACTIVE AGAIN ABOUT FUKUSHIMA! Share, like, tweet, flip out!.”I’ll be responding to many of the comments and adding new information and updates in tomorrow’s CIC Newsletter (issue #28, 4/19/2013), which will be solely dedicated to the Fukushima disaster and it’s implications. If you’re not on my mailing list, you can get on here or pick it up off of my Facebook pageThe original map posted in the article that many pointed out was an edited version of wave height has been replaced with a video simulation from this article, can also be viewed on You Tube, and is originally from this website . Thanks to sharp and informed readers for sending me links. One commenter said that the simulation is sorely in need of updating as a result of new information, but does not post a link.For those who say that if I don’t take the article down, “it clearly shows they are not interested in facts, only in trashing the system,” in case you haven’t noticed, the system needs no help being trashed…it’s perfectly capable of doing that itself.For those who say that if I don’t take the article down, “it clearly shows they are not interested in facts, only in trashing the system,” in case you haven’t noticed, the system needs no help being trashed…it’s perfectly capable of doing that itself.I believe the article is credible and that while reasonable people can disagree, a lot of the negative comments a have a “climate-denier” feel to them. How many years has that argument been going on? Most people are going to believe what they want – or have to – believe. it’s not coming through mainstream sources so it can’t be true? Get real.I believe the article is credible and that while reasonable people can disagree, a lot of the negative comments a have a “climate-denier” feel to them. How many years has that argument been going on? Most people are going to believe what they want – or have to – believe. it’s not coming through mainstream sources so it can’t be true? Get real.Support and I were concerned the the site crash was caused by a “denial of service attack,” but after checking the access logs, we agreed it wasn’t likely, but not out of the question. I find it unbelievable one article could cause that drastic of a jump in hits. There’s also been a significant number of new members, non of whom are paying or making donations. Let’s see if it holds. I doubt it.Support and I were concerned the the site crash was caused by a “denial of service attack,” but after checking the access logs, we agreed it wasn’t likely, but not out of the question. I find it unbelievable one article could cause that drastic of a jump in hits. There’s also been a significant number of new members, non of whom are paying or making donations. Let’s see if it holds. I doubt it.We should just trust them when they tell us the radiation levels are safe (levels that keep on changing), that GMO’s are not harmful, that we don’t do do experiments on US citizens, that we’re not spying on the American people, the economy is improving, and that we should live in fear of terrorists. I ask, who are the real terrorists?We should just trust them when they tell us the radiation levels are safe (levels that keep on changing), that GMO’s are not harmful, that we don’t do do experiments on US citizens, that we’re not spying on the American people, the economy is improving, and that we should live in fear of terrorists. I ask, who are the real terrorists?The negative comments seem to be mostly from people who aren’t willing to have a conversation, demanding that I take the article down, that it’s not credible, that the information is garbage, and even with some resorting to name calling and insults. I have left them all up. Even the one that says I don’t have dose counts. Well, if the FDA would actually do dose counts, we might be able to know that, but since they’ve refused to measure radiation, we can’t know.The negative comments seem to be mostly from people who aren’t willing to have a conversation, demanding that I take the article down, that it’s not credible, that the information is garbage, and even with some resorting to name calling and insults. I have left them all up. Even the one that says I don’t have dose counts. Well, if the FDA would actually do dose counts, we might be able to know that, but since they’ve refused to measure radiation, we can’t know.It started with the graphic that I posted. It turns out, unknowingly to me, that it was an image from NOAA that showed the Tsunami wave height that had been edited to look like the Pacific Ocean Fukushima radiation path. I’m going to look for updated information and will change the graphic and accompanying information as soon as I have time to look for it. Unfortunately, the gigantic jump in viewership crashed my site and I’ve been working on that since yesterday morning. Support and I finally figured out what had happened and I have upgraded the site to handle the traffic.It started with the graphic that I posted. It turns out, unknowingly to me, that it was an image from NOAA that showed the Tsunami wave height that had been edited to look like the Pacific Ocean Fukushima radiation path. I’m going to look for updated information and will change the graphic and accompanying information as soon as I have time to look for it. Unfortunately, the gigantic jump in viewership crashed my site and I’ve been working on that since yesterday morning. Support and I finally figured out what had happened and I have upgraded the site to handle the traffic.It’s been an interesting 36 hours: This website went from 200-300 visitors a day to 0ver 16,000 visitors yesterday and over 39,000 today (so far!). There have also been more comments than any other post that has appeared here, and honestly, the majority of them have been negative.It’s been an interesting 36 hours: This website went from 200-300 visitors a day to 0ver 16,000 visitors yesterday and over 39,000 today (so far!). There have also been more comments than any other post that has appeared here, and honestly, the majority of them have been negative.Fukushima is what happens when we have the moral responsibility of infants and the technology of adults.Fukushima is what happens when we have the moral responsibility of infants and the technology of adults.Our technological intelligence may have the potential for creating a better world, but so far, in areas of the economy, genetics and biologics, arms and warfare, security and surveillance, as well as the environment and energy, technology is also completely indifferent to the law of unintended consequences.Our technological intelligence may have the potential for creating a better world, but so far, in areas of the economy, genetics and biologics, arms and warfare, security and surveillance, as well as the environment and energy, technology is also completely indifferent to the law of unintended consequences.Oxford University’s Future of Humanity Institute, led by director Nick Bostrom, says we have entered this new kind of technological era that we have no track record of surviving.What is the greatest threat to humanity? We are, of course ….and our technology. Like a dangerous weapon in the hands of a child, technology has overtaken our capacity to control potential consequences . Oxford University’s Future of Humanity Institute, led by director Nick Bostrom, says we have entered this new kind of technological era that we have no track record of surviving.Diablo and San Onofre are both built on earthquake faults, haven’t you seen enough of an earthquake to see what it does…and in a tsunami area.”“ Diablo and San Onofre are both built on earthquake faults, haven’t you seen enough of an earthquake to see what it does…and in a tsunami area.”“I knew the three GE engineers who helped design the GE Mark 1 reactors. They resigned because they knew they were dangerous. Japan built them on an earthquake fault.”It’s more than obvious that TEPCO officials have no idea what they’re doing, and the big question is why aren’t world governments jumping in to contain what’s going on? Meanwhile, the Pacific Ocean may very well be dying.Reuters: Crisis deepening at Fukushima nuclear plant; Upgraded to ‘Level 3 Serious Incident’ — Represents a 100-fold increase in “severity of a radiological release” — Tepco says highly radioactive leakage continues, but unknown where from.Unprecedented: Sockeye salmon at dire historic low on Canada’s Pacific coast — “We think something happened in the ocean” — “The elders have never seen anything like this at all” — Alaska and Russia also affected.Study shows Fukushima nuclear pollution becoming more concentrated as it approaches U.S. West Coast — Plume crosses ocean in a nearly straight line toward N. America — Appears to stay together with little dispersion (MODEL)The Telegraph notes that scientists tagged a bluefin tuna and found that it crossed between Japan and the West Coast three times in 600 days: All Pacific migratory fish are likely Fukushima contaminated.The overwhelming scientific consensus is that there is no safe level of radiation … and radiation consumed and taken into the body is much more dangerous than background radiationFish can swim right through it, ingesting it through their gills, by taking in seawater or by eating organisms that have already taken it in.Unlike some other compounds, radioactive cesium does not quickly sink to the sea bottom but remains dispersed in the water column, from the surface to the ocean floor.The 15 fish tested were only exposed to radiation for a short time. But bluefin arriving in California now will have been exposed to the Fukushima radiation for much longer.Tissue samples taken from 15 bluefin caught in August, five months after the meltdowns at Fukushima Daiichi, all 15 contained reactor byproducts cesium-134 and cesium-137.NOT EATING SEAFOOD from the Pacific Ocean until we have better information. Source .Information posted at the website of heWHY? The only way to protect your children and grandchildren is byNuclear experts are calling on the U.S. government to test West Coast waters and Pacific seafood sold in the U.S. in the wake of Japan’s alarming admission about an ongoing radiation leak, something the EPA and the FDA have so far refused to do, as they are only testing imported fish, not wild-caught.Although contaminated air, rainfall and even radioactive debris from Japan have drifted toward the U.S. West Coast since the disaster occurred 2 1/2 years ago, scientists are unclear about how the contaminated waters could impact the health of Americans, and while scientists say that 300 tons of contaminate water is diluted in the Pacific, no one knows how long that’s been going during those 2 1/2 years as we also now know TEPCO has been lying all along.Scientists previously reported higher-than-expected concentrations of radiation in fish off Japan. Now there are calls for testing of seafood sold in the U.S.etected radioactive cesium from the Fukushima No. 1 nuclear plant in plankton collected from all 10 points in the Pacific they checked, with the highest levels at around 25 degrees north latitude and 150 degrees west longitude. Plankton, and the radiation they contain, moves right up the food chain through fish, whales, seals, etc., and when larger fish eat smaller fish.Contaminated water from Fukushima reactors c ould double radioactivity levels of US coastal waters in 5 years — “We were surprised at how quickly the tracer spread”plutonium and uranium (MOX), which means we can never return to this place again. This comes from a Russian nuclear physicist who is an expert on the kinds of gasses being released at Fukushima.An MSNBC article in April of 2012 reported that seals and polar bears were found to have “external maladies” that consisted of fur loss and open sores, obvious signs of radiation burns from the Fukushima meltdown, despite the conclusions of the article.There’s a lot you’re not being told. Oh, the information is out there, but you have to dig pretty deep to find it, and you won’t find it on the corporate-owned evening news.There’s a lot you’re not being told. Oh, the information is out there, but you have to dig pretty deep to find it, and you won’t find it on the corporate-owned evening news.It now appears that anywhere from 300 to possibly over 450 tons of contaminated water that contains radioactive iodone, cesium, and strontium-89 and 90, is flooding into the Pacific Ocean from the Fukushima Daichi site everyday. To give you an idea of how bad that actually is, Japanese experts estimate Fukushima’s fallout at 20-30 times as high as as the Hiroshima and Nagasaki nuclear bombings in 1945The heart-breaking news from Fukushima just keeps getting worse…a LOT worse…it is, quite simply, an out-of-control flow of death and destruction. TEPCO is finally admitting that radiation has been leaking to the Pacific Ocean all along. and it’s NOT over….The heart-breaking news from Fukushima just keeps getting worse…a LOT worse…it is, quite simply, an out-of-control flow of death and destruction. TEPCO is finally admitting that radiation has been leaking to the Pacific Ocean all along. and it’s NOT over….At the Very Least, Your Days of Eating Pacific Ocean Fish Are Over – with updates377 Responses to “At the Very Least, Your Days of Eating Pacific Ocean Fish Are Over – with updates”Josh Says:August 15th, 2013 at 2:35 am The above picture of “radiation” is actually an edited version of a NOAA wave height map. Notice how it doesn’t have a map legend to tell you what the colors are, not does it have a title. This is misinformation right here.Gary Stamper Says:August 15th, 2013 at 3:36 am I just checked and apparently, you’re correct Josh. Here’s what appears to be the latest map I could find showing radiation in the Pacific up UNTIL March 2012. If the tsunami hit in May of 2011, and this map represents what happened over a span of 10 months, what do you suppose an updated map to August 2013 – 17 months later – might look like? I think I’ll stand by the representation shown in the article.diane2532342323 Says:August 15th, 2013 at 6:07 am Don’t consume anything made in the US? That ain’t gonna happen. Let’s be realistic!Gary Stamper Says:August 15th, 2013 at 10:46 am I think you’ve misread the article, Diane. No where does it say not consume anything made in the US…it does say not to consume wild-caught Pacific Ocean fish. And then there’s coretex in the Gulf of Mexico. As I said….our own worst enemy….Someone Says:August 15th, 2013 at 5:37 pm The wave map does have a legend right on top of south america, but yes, it is a map of the tsunami wave height, NOT radiation. It’d be nice if these reporters would find an accurate map and switch them out.Juan Says:August 15th, 2013 at 6:53 pm @Josh the legend is on the rightGDawg Says:August 15th, 2013 at 7:27 pm OMG… this is pseudo-science hyperventilation at its worst. Well, I’ve seen worse, but this is close. As always, it’s a lot easier to jump up and down about something (“the sky is falling, the sky is falling!”) than to think carefully about the meaning of observations… who cares where the Fukushima radioactivity goes? what’s important is HOW MUCH goes (i.e, dose) and its fate… Tuna all over the world (and everything else) has 14C from 1950s bomb tests in it, and people have been gobbling it up, but the dose is so low that it is statistically not visible. Except for very nearshore Japanese waters, the same is true with respect to Fukushima radiation. There is simply no evidence whatever to support the wild claims Stamper is making. Even for Japanese people the risks of elevated cancers are very low, in spite of all that radioactivity. Arm-waving about marine mammals, fish, babies in Cali, etc., is just plain silly. But have at it Chicken Little… use your platform and see what kind of attention you can get.Yon Says:August 15th, 2013 at 8:10 pm Most disturbing I am certain to all of us. The solution in regards to food production, like fish, is to establish facilities to produce these items that is not linked to the ocean. We are all aware of fish farming techniques however, non reach the intent of the Aqua=Terra T.W.I.N.S. (Trans-Web Infrastructure Network System) projects (www.aquaterraplanetaryholdings.us and http://www.invention.net/aquaterra ). This is an idea to build a self-sustaining national and international single-standard system for advanced (350-4,000+ mph) transportation system, power-grid system, and self-sustaining land (Terra) and sea (Aqua) Stations producing food, fish, water, advanced and emergency shelter, and much more. In truth, this is one solution to the contamination caused by our selfish Human behavior and to resolve, we must build a self-sustaining system as the Aqua=Terra T.W.I.N.S.proposes.willem Says:August 15th, 2013 at 8:29 pm just buy a geigerteller and check your goods on radioactivityTony Plakas Says:August 15th, 2013 at 8:43 pm Notice the legend is for centimeters. This is a map of tsunami wave height.mx Says:August 15th, 2013 at 9:12 pm please remove this misleading map which clearly states a unit of “cm” in the legend, referring to wave height, which has nothing to do with the spread of radiationGlen Says:August 15th, 2013 at 9:38 pm This story is not credible. It begins with trying to pass off a map of wave height as if it was a map of radiation. Even if that was somehow an oversight (hard to believe) it shows a shocking inattention to detail. Then there is the statement that “Contaminated water from Fukushima reactors could double radioactivity levels of US coastal waters in 5 years”. Excuse me, how radioactive is the water now? So how radioactive is double that? The elitedaily story is just as bad. Same hysterical nonsense about the amount of contaminated water leaking into the Pacific Ocean, but not a word about how much actual radiation.David Otness Says:August 15th, 2013 at 9:52 pm Writing from Alaska and being a lifelong commercial fisherman and merchant mariner in northern waters (now retired) I’ll ask for some substantiation on that halibut quote.In fact, there has been so much speculation and even fear mongering such as the above rolled-out graphic over the past two years. That said, I am not saying we don’t have an issue as large and as immediate as catastrophic climate change, likely one that will hasten the end of life as we knew it.I am not downplaying the seriousness of Fuk but the volumes of water in the Pacific Ocean are ENORMOUS and even 600tons per day needs to be broken down into units such as gallons/cubic volumes and last but not least, the actual levels of the contamination within these volumes.I still have questions regarding the seals which had lesions as I was on the Arctic Ocean doing research when that was reported. Those seals, if indeed proven irradiated (which they have not), could likely have picked it up from Soviet era leaking submarine reactor cores on the northern Siberian coast rather than having a severe dose all the way from northern Japan. Check the ocean currents, they flow west from Alaska.We never did get the answers there on the seals and that disturbs me, however I have not heard of any polar bears getting similar afflictions. Starvation and drowning continue to bedevil them as the ice fades away.There have been no further or recent reports of those sick seals and I get my news from both the research community and Alaskan sources.I have many Inupiat and Yupik friends on FaceBook and they are not reporting any ongoing anomalies, in fact they are telling of great meals even yesterday.My fish come from the northern Gulf of Alaska waters and my freezer id\s full and the fish are tasty as ever.Call me a fool if you wish, but I’m a well-fed fool at that and quite selective about what I eat.I worry most about the stored plutonium at those sites.That is the SHIT that will take us and most creatures out. outCheersGDawg Says:August 15th, 2013 at 9:56 pm Stamper: Please, evidence? what you’re presenting is a joke…. okay, maybe I should have been more clear: there is no credible scientific evidence supporting any of your wild claims or the “sky is falling” hyperbole. If you choose to suspend rationale thought and reason, then you can turn anything you want into “evidence” to support any claim you want. For example, just as your maps shows nothing about Fukushima radiation, the URL you provide proves zero about radaition impacts, zero, nadda. To repeat, it’s dose that counts (a little more complicated than that, but still it’s the factor that’s critical). So where’s your dose map? Where’s your dose-response story? Your “evidence” isn’t science. It’s little more than squawking. But squawk on CL, squawk on…A Ryan Says:August 15th, 2013 at 10:54 pm I agree on the map issue-casts doubt on the article.Laurie Says:August 15th, 2013 at 10:55 pm Gary Stamper, even the “latest” map of radiation in the Pacific is not what you say it is. Here’s the site with that map: http://asrltd.com/japan/plume.php and please note the words below it, from ASR: “THIS IS NOT A REPRESENTATION OF THE RADIOACTIVE PLUME CONCENTRATION.” This is a representation only of where some of the marine life off the coast of Japan MAY have travelled since Fukushima. The authors make no assumption that that marine life was exposed to excessive levels of radioactivity. Here’s another link with some info, although I can’t vouch for its accuracy: http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/fukushima-radiation-proves-less-deadly-than-feared.html Enough with the Chicken Little routine. Anyone can sound alarms and cause panic with misinformation, and misrepresenting what these two maps show is the worst of the worst. I’d suggest doing better research, if you really want to do a public service. There is absolutely no science to support this article, and no excuse for making the broad statements you do.Laurie Says:August 15th, 2013 at 11:00 pm Scientists say the only safe amount of radioactivity is “zero”? Really? Good luck if you want to eat anything that’s every been exposed to sunlight. Or exposed to water that’s been exposed to sunlight.Any good plan Says:August 15th, 2013 at 11:57 pm Why not flood the plant with concrete and then water.A Real Scientist Says:August 16th, 2013 at 1:41 am I can’t stand this mish-mash of data, a misleading graphic, and baseless fear mongering. There’s no evidence the fish caught in the Pacific have become radioactive as a result of Fukishima.B Says:August 16th, 2013 at 2:42 am Laurie- You confuse electromagnetic radiation with atomic radiation… Atomic radiation, which is subatomic particles being emitted from radioactive matter at very high velocities, is intensely more destructive than UV radiation from the sun, which is an electromagnetic wave and very weak by comparison, and does not pollute water… in fact, UV radiation sterilizes water (but can’t destroy radioactive contamination.)angela Says:August 16th, 2013 at 2:42 am Not only is this atrocity been a class A worlds worst blunder.. followed by lying to their staff to go repair everything to die a terrible death. Now the ocean and marine life is dying. I say if clean up is possible then get on it already. It’s not a matter of dollars and cents.. or Yen.. It is the environment in which your children and grand children will live in (or die in in this case??). So Step up to the plate and clean it up already!B Says:August 16th, 2013 at 2:48 am Any good plan- Flooding the plant with anything would only displace the contaminated water, forcing it out of the resevoirs that are supposed to be containing it in the first place even faster than leaving it alone. Containment is the only viable approach.Julie Clarity Says:August 16th, 2013 at 3:20 am This is the sort of thing that forces a body to adapt or die.Tom Burke Says:August 16th, 2013 at 4:49 am This guy heads up the article with a graphic of wave height which anyone reading the article would assume is some measure of radiation. He gets called on it and then says he stands behind the fraudulent graphic because a real graph of radiation might look like this. So, is anything else in the article correct or are all the statement he makes what the truth might look like, possibly, maybe,…Rob-old sailor Says:August 16th, 2013 at 5:06 am Yes,and everyone who eats carrots will die.Laurie Says:August 16th, 2013 at 5:51 am B: thank you for the clarification.Roger Skoff Says:August 16th, 2013 at 6:36 am After reading the article and the comments on it, I’m really proud of what I saw. Although the article is at best an environmentalist polemic, the people responding to it have been generally thoughtful, courteous and knowledgeable. Good. C. M. Kornbluth isn’t right yet and, if we keep it up, “The Marching Morons” may never get here at all. Celebrate! Eat fish! Kick a tree!me Says:August 16th, 2013 at 8:14 am its sad that the map is what steals the whole story. The map is suppose to be an example of how the radiation will spread. i believe its true that radiation is in the waters. however i believe if it were harmful to humans then it would be taken care of.Its sad that it will go untreated till then.asus3000 Says:August 16th, 2013 at 9:28 am For all those saying there is no credible news source and that it’s all just hyperbole. The 300 tons of seawater contamination is coming from this source: http://www.abc.net.au/news/2013-08-12/fukushima-plant-workers-raise-safety-concerns/4879960John Says:August 16th, 2013 at 9:59 am This article is an opinion piece. I read the other articles quoted and those are opinion pieces as well. So sorry to burst anyone’s bubble, but overall, this is BS.knowfishbluefish Says:August 16th, 2013 at 11:26 am I sold my seafood wholesale business in Boston in 2001. For 15 years in that business I always marveled at the giant cancer tumors in Pacific caught Swordfish. It was a rarity to find cancer in Atlantic caught Swordfish. I was just now surprised to not find an immediate link when searching cancer rates in the fisheries. I don’t want to scare you, not all these fish had them, but plenty did. When I was digging them out from the collar or along the spine cartilage, I’d just think of all the testing in the atolls. ” We finally really did it.You Maniacs! You blew it up! Ah, damn you! God damn you all to hell!”Dali Says:August 16th, 2013 at 1:16 pm Gary, the article would be good if you would not made it up.When I find out the map is tsunami height, I felt shame how I could share on FB something like that. It could be a good beginning, but you better start again.Vic Says:August 16th, 2013 at 3:52 pm Glow in the dark ocean for night swimming! AWESOME!!!!!!MR AIDAN G WALSH Says:August 16th, 2013 at 5:10 pm I will say this clearly now, do not give up your firearms, the disaster at Japan was a nuclear weapon device…wake up people and take this and previous radiation disasters ‘kept quiet’ controlled media very very seriously…I have ‘internal ionization radiation injuries’ and I first started showing symptoms back in Montreal June 1990…U R all going to now come down with radiation injuries it cannot be stopped now it is in your entire food chains, water supplies and even in your rain drops, next it will be in your tears…I am very very serious about what I write and say online…All Gulf War Veterans will succumb to this plus their entire families, Doctors will say I think you have Chronic Lyme Disease or another b.s. story of Cronic Fatigue Syndrome but in the end I will tell you now so you do not have to waste your time and funds looking for a ‘proper diagnosis’it will be RADIATION INJURIES…they lied about 3 Mile Island they lied about Japan they lied about Chernobyl they lied about the over 2,000 atomic nuclear bomb explosions and the even lied ‘France’ about The Marshall Islands as well…I suggest 2 things now 1. Read the ‘Radiation Page’from The National CFIDS Foundation ‘a possible chance of a cure coming the best minds in medicine now involved’and donate if you can please,(THANKS) stop giving these corrupt controlled Governments your tax monies ‘donate now’ 2. under no circumstances do not give up your firearms but go out and stockpile more arms now…They do not give a shit whatsoever about any of you they have left us to slowly die now for decades!! 21ST CENTURY MEDICAL INTENTIONAL DISASTER COVER-UP!! THE BLOOD/ORGAN SUPPLY UNSAFE PLUS THEY ARE NOW USING VACCINES TO ‘IMMUNO SUPRESS’ YOU AND YOUR DOCTORS/NURSES DO NOT EVEN KNOW THIS…THANKS AIDAN BLESSES TO ALL OF YOU AND PROTECT YOUR CHILDREN NOW…*KEEP YOUR GUNSJames Oppenheimer Says:August 16th, 2013 at 5:32 pm This article uses garbage information, as has been restated numerous times in the comments. If the originators do not take this down, it clearly shows they are not interested in facts, only in trashing the system. Shame.Steve Collins Says:August 16th, 2013 at 7:32 pm Nobody is disputing that tons of contaminated water is flowing beneath the damaged nuclear plant. But there doesn’t appear to be any scientific evidence in the entire piece to back up anything that is asserted. It’s propaganda, sure, but that would be fine if it was citing genuine sources and verifiable facts. Instead, it’s just tossing out claims that don’t appear to be have any substance to them. To be generous, it’s shoddy. And the misleading graphic makes it downright terrible.Miska Says:August 16th, 2013 at 7:48 pm Water is an excellent insulator against radioactivity. “Radioactive water” does not exist, only areas polluted by radioactive waiste. This article is a joke for anybody who has read any physics.Kristin Says:August 16th, 2013 at 9:31 pm This is what I read when I see things like this and I get fearful. This is predicted in the bible…sad to say we will not like the outcomeThis is what I read when I see things like this and I get fearful. Whoever dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.2 I will say of the Lord, “He is my refuge and my fortress,my God, in whom I trust.” 3 Surely he will save youfrom the fowler’s snareand from the deadly pestilence. 4 He will cover you with his feathers,and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness will be your shield and rampart. 5 You will not fear the terror of night,nor the arrow that flies by day. 6 nor the pestilence that stalks in the darkness,nor the plague that destroys at midday. 7 A thousand may fall at your side,ten thousand at your right hand,but it will not come near you. 8 You will only observe with your eyesand see the punishment of the wicked. 9 If you say, “The Lord is my refuge,”and you make the Most High your dwelling, 10 no harm will overtake you,no disaster will come near your tent. 11 For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways; 12 they will lift you up in their hands,so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. 13 You will tread on the lion and the cobra;you will trample the great lion and the serpent. 14 “Because he loves me,” says the Lord, “I will rescue him; I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name. 15 He will call on me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble,I will deliver him and honor him. 16 With long life I will satisfy himTrevor Says:August 16th, 2013 at 9:44 pm Mr. Stamper, you clearly WANT this issue to be as sensational and scary as possible. Why else would you post that wave height map as a radiation map without being absolutely certain about what it was? Why else would you not take that map down the moment you found it to be incorrect? For this reason I can’t trust a word you say.kyler Says:August 16th, 2013 at 10:33 pm I think you are a bit too biased in your article: For example: “Scientists say the only safe level of radiation is zero. YET, governments set ‘limits’ for radiation in food well above zero.” It is my understanding that there low levels of radiation in every city, and that includes radiation in our food resulting from it being in cities. a Zero level does not exist. If it does, i’d love to see a source on it. People need to read more articles that are written by experts and not ‘opinionated people’. As a result people believe a lot of bullshit pretty quickly. I do generally agree with the other stuff you’ve written.Jim Kayalar Says:August 16th, 2013 at 10:40 pm Thank you for this article.THIS IS A GREAT ARTICLE! I am well hearsed in academia and can see that some of the data is flawed.But, the truth remains that the Fuki plant operators and the Japanese government covered this up and downplayed the dangers. They still are. That’s exactly what happened in Chernobyl. Two decades post Chernobyl I was asked if I had had radiation exposure at a routine checkup. I was 2500 miles away from Cherynobyl. The Fuki disaster continues unabated. Cooling with sea water was just a temporary fix. They are now debating dumping all the water in the storage tanks into the sea because there is no place left to store the radioactive water.Laura Says:August 16th, 2013 at 11:11 pm I have been avoiding swimming at the beach in Cali for this very reason. Its a known fact that the radiation is not controlled and is leaking. And thats what they do tell you. Despite the inaccuracy of the picture, we should all be learning from this that nuclear power is not the answer. The plants in San Diego should be shut down. And liquids can be radioactive including water!!!John Says:August 17th, 2013 at 12:25 am The Earth itself is naturally radioactive, that’s why we have volcanoes and hot springs. Any food you eat that has potassium has radioactive potassium in it. Maybe Gary should also advocate boycotting bananas. And 450 tons of water actually isn’t that much, water is really heavy. It works out to a cube of water about 25 feet per side. Stick that into the ocean, and it’s nothing.Ethan Says:August 17th, 2013 at 12:43 am TAKE THE PHOTO DOWN! If you can update your article, you can take the photo down. It hurts the credibility of the article and the info it provides. TAKE IT DOWN NOW!He-man Says:August 17th, 2013 at 1:04 am 450 tons is nothing… 450 tons equates to 14,289 Gallons. An olympic size swimming pool is about 660,000 gallons. In tons thats 20784 tons. Thanks for this shit articleTony C. Saladino-Director ECO-Tours of Wisconsin Inc. Says:August 17th, 2013 at 1:16 am I have studied radiation and the processes required to start up a nuke facility, the ties between “peaceful uses” of nuclear power and the weaponized stream of hot materials. Nothing you said is unexpected, but the image used is perhaps misleading. The currents and weather patterns sweep more of a Northward arc across the Pacific. In either case, whether it hits South America or North America first is of little consequence. Those who are not irate, demoralized or depressed about this long term terrorism created by the ruling elites are just not paying attention. When you get a better graphic, I would like to share your article on The Otherfish Wrap at blogspot.com I have been writing on this and other issues for several years and devoted several posts to the Fukushima disaster and the long term health affects that can be expected from such a wanton disregard for human and environmental health.Pam Pfeifer Says:August 17th, 2013 at 2:41 am Starvation could be the cause of the end of the world.DragonTat2 Says:August 17th, 2013 at 3:49 am Thank you. This is vital information, despite the error in the image.People are dying~KT Says:August 17th, 2013 at 5:05 am If the map is wrong, then please take it down and put a map up that is right. The only map that I trust right now is radiation map that is crowd sourced in Japan. http://www.safecast.org There is no good map of radiation for an area as large as the Pacific Ocean. You have to depend on computer simulation for debris spread. Here is one: http://jeromiewilliams.com/2013/07/29/holy-fukushima-is-your-drinking-water-safe-from-japanese-radiation/ and here is another one. http://fukushima-diary.com/2012/05/does-radiation-travel-across-the-sea/Carlos Ortega Says:August 17th, 2013 at 6:43 am Just watched “V is for Vendetta” for the first time, just yesterday, august 16th, 2013. It seemed fitting. It’s time for the world population to wake up and tell governments that is time to serve and protect the people they serve, instead of send them (us) to wars, to induced economic crises, to eat GMO poisoned food and so much more.Gale Steelman Says:August 17th, 2013 at 6:58 am I WOULD listen to Dr. Caldicott, though, she’s been studying the effects of radiation for years and years. She has a lot of information that people should take the time to look into.deebs Says:August 17th, 2013 at 7:13 am are the naysayers willfuly ignorant or propagandists? honestly, i dont see how any argument against this reality can be considered anything but IGNORANT (which is “to ignore”). it is impossible to get “good graphics” when radiation monitoring has been censored. we find ourselves int the orwellian age of the doublespeakers and anti-informationist media saboteurs. but graphics or not, the truth is, NO AMMOUNT OF NUCLEAR RADIATION IS SAFE. period….Big Jim Jr Says:August 17th, 2013 at 7:29 am Interesting article. Not exactly correct but still has valid points. But you should know some things first. Miska is correct. There is no such thing as radioactive water. Radiation pollution comes from radioactive particles as you correctly stated. These particles are exactly that, tiny particles. They are released any time a nuclear or xray release happens. There are many types of particles, some worse than others. The most important thing to know is these particles are heavy. That means they sink whenever released. Whether it be in air or water. Hence the term “nuclear fallout”. The particles can be spread by many means. Wind, carriers like people walking through contaminated areas, water flows etc. But the particles always sink. That means that in water, all radiation sinks to the bottom. Leaving the water uncontaminated but not the bottom of the container. That could be the tank, barrel or the ocean bottom. Currents will carry the particles only as far as it takes them to sink to the bottom. At that point, only disturbing the bottom will continue to spread the particles. That disturbing can be a storm, fish, bottom dwelling critters etc. But the particles will only go far enough to sink back down. Now, as these particles move across the bottom, sooner or later they fall into deep holes, trenches, valleys etc. Where little life exists and currents are mild. As the radiation sits, it becomes covered up in silt, slowing being buried where they no longer move. At that point the only danger they pose is to digging into the silt. So the radioactive particles will never reach the US. But, there is a possibility that fish and shellfish that pick up the particles in Japan, would carry them to the US. That is why the feds are only testing imported fish. On long migrating fish like tuna, they have to eat something containing the particles. So unless they are eating crabs or other fish that eat bottom dwellers, the radiation stays put. As more fish eat particles and carry them, sooner or later they die and the particles sink again. Unless we catch them and eat them. Think about the atomic bombs tests of the ’40’s-’60’s on Pacific Atolls. Only the area around the atolls, the bottom, are radioactive. Otherwise we would all be so contaminated that we would have six eyes, three fingers etc. I wouldn’t worry about eating US products. I would worry about eating Japanese products. Just like I worry about eating ANYTHING from overseas.lindsay Says:August 17th, 2013 at 7:50 am Ok seriously people! You are in a very serious state of denial if you say that this is all lies and we are over reacting. Do the math 300 tons of nuclear run off has leaked into the ocean everyday for 17 months! Approximately 145,000 tons in total. Thousands of fish are washing up on shores dead. Just like the first wave of victims from trinobyl. And we are going to keep consuming these contaminated fish. FDA says it’s safe so it must be. They would never lie to us about what we are eating. Surely they would tell us if the food we eat will give us cancer or cause our children to have develope mental disorders, or cause future children to be born with terrible deformities. And remember GMO is good for you too. ‘merica the home of the brave. Just remember it’s a fine line between bravery and stupidity.Terry Says:August 17th, 2013 at 8:09 am 1 in 2.5 men and 1 in 2.6 women now get cancer. False flag operations Camera’s everywhere. Bank bailouts? Everything is going to hell in a handbag and still you cannot get your “educated” heads around what is going on? What are you doubters going to say when you get cancer? In less than, what is it, 200 years we have managed to pretty much guaranty our extinction. Not only that we need to make sure and take out ALL life when we go. I’m thinking that with high intelligence comes arrogance to match. I call it mental illness, and we the people let these people rule over us? Because they have more colored paper than we do? it all goes together and it spells certain death. Slow and painful. I have no faith in any government. They have no honesty and have sold us like cattle at an auction for pennies on the dollar. It all has to stop now. But is it too late? I guess by the time we realize that racism and other tactics “they” use to keep us from getting together and putting a stop to this utterly useless stupid self destructive one way ticket to hell, it will be too late!!! If it’s not already. I for one am wondering how we are going to get ourselves out of this mess. I guess we’ll have to die. Call me what you want I don’t need the fine details to see where this is going to end up.Terry Says:August 17th, 2013 at 8:23 am Mr. Aiden G Walsh I believe you hit the nail on the head!!!!! I have a hard time to get out of bed some days and I never went to war, or even near where one was being fought. They came and took my guns and I almost went to jail. I’ll get more and hide the damned things till the day when I need them to defend my family. I’m becoming a prepper slowly . Got a long way to go before I feel ready but when the shit hits the fan I want to one of the first to start taking these bastards out. Thank you for your words. I wish I knew afew billion more like you. Then we could set them straight!!! Do or die. I’ll die, but first I want to take some of these assholes with me.John Eriksson Says:August 17th, 2013 at 8:28 am Compare this to the rubber duckies that was lost in the pacific 20 years ago. Its like a map drawing the currents from fukushima. http://www.mnn.com/earth-matters/wilderness-resources/stories/what-can-28000-rubber-duckies-lost-at-sea-teach-us-about-Terry Says:August 17th, 2013 at 8:35 am I can’t help it but I have to say it. Some guy on here says that this is an opinion piece? Get your head out of your ass and look around my friend. is the rate of people dying of cancer also just an opinion? Well, it’s my opinion that everybody needs to WAKE THE HELL UP! You too dude. To the lady with the bible? That book isn’t going to save you, or anybody else. Too bad but we all are going to have to roll up our sleeves and get dirty!AK Says:August 17th, 2013 at 8:59 am Great piece Gary, but please cite where you actually got main chunks of the article’s content.The sections ‘IS THE PACIFIC OCEAN FOOD CHAIN DOOMED?’,’SEAFOOD LOVERS ACROSS THE WORLD’ and ‘KEYPOINTS ABOUT FISH CONTAMINATION’ are taken from a webpage at NuclearCrimes.org.Crickett Green Says:August 17th, 2013 at 10:30 am Well my research vessel is getting ready to head out into the Pacific Ocean and once and for all find the answers. Time for everyone to put up some funds to help the expedition. We will be taking water samples, tissue samples from marine life, and doing complete radioactivity scans of the major portion of the northern Pacific, then swinging down the west coast of the Americas. We will get the answers. Our findings will be double checked by two University labs. The results will be posted on our site and the video of the entire voyage will be available on You Tube. For more info go to my website http://spectresquad.wix.com/sea-ghost-rescue-hueman Says:August 17th, 2013 at 12:16 pm Well, that’ll keep Mr Burns and Smithers happy down in Springfield – They’ll be having plenty more of them 3 eyed fish for dinner in the future!Tom Says:August 17th, 2013 at 1:57 pm Do we think that the contaminated water in the Pacific will ONLY stay in the Pacific?Tony from Vancouver Says:August 17th, 2013 at 2:50 pm Keep up the good work. You are on the right path and we know from the negative comments ” Me thinks he does protest too much” I have said for 2 years, when the first 2 headed salmon shows up in the Fraser River(one of the largest salmon rivers in the world) then perhaps people will go “oh”. God;s speed allCecile Says:August 17th, 2013 at 3:28 pm The substance of this article is solid. There may be detail-problems: use of the tsunami wave map, and the statistic that 1/3 of babies born after fkuushima show thyroid involvement. The original statistic came from Joe Mangano & Janet Sherman, epidemiologists: an increase of 35% in infant mortality on western coast united states (plus Boise).For full background see Devil’s Tango: How I Learned the Fukushma Step by Step, revised edition, published by WingsPress.com. From its inception, DEvil’s Tango points to the real magnitude of this planetary catastrophy.runningman55 Says:August 17th, 2013 at 3:44 pm In AU this has been all over the main stream media for weeks. Came back to the states and can find very little here. There is a lot of good evidence to back this up.John Says:August 17th, 2013 at 3:51 pm You do realize that when you put false information up about radiation that people get scared and do stupid things like overdose on iodine tablets right? Do you feel comfortable knowing what you know now about this article you wrote? There are so many lies and false information in it that I can only guess you are intentionally trying to hurt people.Erin Says:August 17th, 2013 at 3:55 pm Fuku was a nuclear bomb and so was the earthquake. See www. Jimstonefreelance.com….. for proof.Jim Says:August 17th, 2013 at 3:56 pm Reminds me of the Dawn of the Dead remake press conference. Serious stuff.Jerry C Says:August 17th, 2013 at 3:57 pm For those who simply want to split hairs on all the ‘details’ or the validity of the information presented in this article itself and you’re hell bent for leather to keep right on eating the stuff that comes out of the Pacific or the gulf, or from the shores of Japan – go for it… please feel free to indulge yourselves… enjoy the moment… I’ll just sit back and smile….lollerskate Says:August 17th, 2013 at 4:04 pm It’s a shame the internet can be used for this.. The good news is people that write these types of articles, or support those that do, are all talk and never actually do anything. So at worst they’re just clutter, not a real threat to progress.Catfish Says:August 17th, 2013 at 4:12 pm I remember a few months after this happend, I would google “rad levels in rain” for my home st and other, I found 400-800% higher than normal, sounds like a huge amount but realize its 4-8 times higher, nothing to scoff at in any caseV Says:August 17th, 2013 at 4:23 pm At the very least, the dates of the video so not match – the article says the video was on March 22, 2012, and the video itself is from March 18, 2011. The disaster was on March 11, 2011….a bit of a disconnect.Pacific Sea Food Warning Says:August 17th, 2013 at 4:30 pm […] GA_googleFillSlot("TaurusArmed-300P"); Something to consider when looking for fish. I put Gulf of Mexico sea food on the "once in a blue moon" list due to the Corexit/oil cocktail in the water column, and Pacific sea food is on the "Heck to the Naw!" list. At the Very Least, Your Days of Eating Pacific Ocean Fish Are Over […]Joe Barry Says:August 17th, 2013 at 4:55 pm Cowah Bunga dude; the surface is rad in California.Thomas Says:August 17th, 2013 at 6:25 pm Hah. I think currently, something like 50% of Japanese men are smokers, some of the highest smoking rates in the world, and also, one of the highest longevity rates in the world too – until Fukushima that is. But – like all things in this world mean to deceive and mislead – and also in order to get out of assuming financial responsibilities – I am certain UN, WHO, etc. will send in the Anti-Smoking Industry to distort facts, come up with junk statistics, call it “truth” and thus “prove” that the upsurge in Japanese deaths from Fukushima are not really from radiation, not at all – but BECAUSE OF THE SMOKERS – of course! And – to make matters lovely – everyone in the MSM and mainstream thought, throughout the world, will oh-so-believe-it – too! And nobody will question it – not now, not ever. First hand, second hand, third hand, fourth hand tobacco smoke- THAT’s what’s causing all those deaths and time to tighten up brutality and tyranny against “them smokers” – better to get everyone to oh-so-believe that, than understand radiation release into the atmosphere since the 1940’s and now into the oceans thanks to Fukushima.VickyinSD Says:August 17th, 2013 at 6:27 pm Despite the misleading graphic, the video says it all… WAKE UP and PAY ATTENTION people! This is from an article posted on a Canadian news site yesterday… “On Aug. 14, Reuters reported that Tepco was preparing to remove 400 tonnes of “highly irradiated” spent fuel from the severely damaged Reactor Four building. The operation, set to start in November and expected to take one year, has never been attempted on this scale and, according to nuclear experts, “is fraught with danger, including the possibility of a large release of radiation if a fuel assembly breaks, gets stuck or gets too close to an adjacent bundle,” the news agency reported. The radiation contained in the fuel pools in Reactor Four is equivalent to 14,000 times the amount released in the atomic bomb attack on Hiroshima 68 years ago, the Reuters report said. In their World Nuclear Industry Status Report 2013, independent scientists Mycle Schneider and Antony Froggat wrote: “Full release from the Unit-4 spent fuel pool, without any containment or control, could cause by far the most serious radiological disaster to date.” http://www.coastreporter.net/article/20130816/SECHELT0302/308169974/-1/sechelt/nuclear-crisis-reaching-critical-stagelaura m. Says:August 17th, 2013 at 6:46 pm Fish farming is the answer in certain parts of the world incl. most of the U.S. Seafood is unfit to eat even in Gulf Mex. for decades, as gulf is contaminated with chemical run off and raw sewage from the Miss. river and coastal cities down to Key west. I eat Atlantic salmon and N. sea haddock, etc.but no more shellfish. In the 60’s up to the early 80’s I ate shrimp, oysters, etc. from the gulf; no longer safe.Chavez Says:August 17th, 2013 at 7:20 pm Wow…some comments here are incredibly shallow. This a disaster that need attention by the POTUS. It is the arms industry backing nuclear energy. We should immediately close all of our nuclear power plants and safely dismantle them. If any elected official says that we should support nuclear energy, that should be one litmus test to vote them out. In due time it will happen here or elsewhere.ding Says:August 17th, 2013 at 8:13 pm Ahh… The FDA is not the only one who can officially test the dead dolphins for radiation. This info/article is mis-leading on that point, to create a headline hysteria. Stop this crap and do some of your own leg work and research on this before you print.Hans Says:August 17th, 2013 at 8:26 pm What about the french nuke testing at mururoa atoll??? they let bombs off actually in the water…that was years ago.Jeff Says:August 17th, 2013 at 9:19 pm I’m amazed half these commenters could pass the math question in order to comment.Benjamin Chung Says:August 17th, 2013 at 10:03 pm The only completely safe and right thing to do is 1.) Outlaw nuclear energy power plants in the USA and around the world.-The world doesn’t need any more Chernobyls, Three Mile Islands, and Fukushima’s to contaminate and destroy the genetic heritage of life on the earth. 2.) Hold the people accountable who pushed this cancer causing death inducing, environment polluting hateful wasteful and ugly technology , hold them accountable and let them know they were wrong to exchange life for greedy profit. 3.) Stay alert and trust God and fight the good fight against corruption, environmentally degrading unethical businesses around the world, against bureuacratic corruption and corrupt governmental groups hiding behind institutions like wolves in sheeps clothing(the worst kind of them all)….Remember Charleston Heston, remember “all men are created equal and endowed by the creator with certain inalienable rights and among those rights are the right to life, to liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” This is the only basis for US government and too much of the basics is being stifled and silenced! be informed and do the right thing and stand up for what is right! We owe it to the future generations. You see what many people fail to understand; and in doing so they are betraying their very own selves(to thine own self be true); is that the environment is a global one. That destruction to nature anywhere will find its way into everywhere else( weather changes, pollution, polluting technology, industrial wastes, etc.) So whenever we accept pollution and unethical behavior anywhere we are indirectly at the very least contributing to the disaster that is now killing us. Fukushima is another prime example of this. Wake up! Trust in Jesus who has overcome the world! Even death gets destroyed by God in the end! Don’t be one of those who decided it was okay to kill innocents and to pollute the world!Naj Says:August 17th, 2013 at 10:11 pm @He-man… Both of your conversions are grossly incorrect, a magnitude of order off.Rmf Says:August 17th, 2013 at 10:57 pm Despite the map mistake, I think the general tone of alarm is valid. The scary thing is that the Japanese authorities and media are saying almost nothing about the possibility of cesium-tainted seafood. Japanese friends continue to post photos of seafood dinners that they and their children are eating. The only neutral thought I have is that maybe the Greater Intelligence that imbues the Universe is clearing out the human race for some future species to thrive. Our out-of-balance with Nature stupidity is merely a tool in the process. As the late great George Carlin said, “The Earth will be fine folks. But you’re going away. Time to pack your bags. “Nosson Says:August 17th, 2013 at 11:09 pm Wow so many of you rushing to stick your heads in the ground like an ostrich “the map is wrong” oh well they had a bad graphic designer for the page. But the science is real.and all of the comments including swearing.Why? This is simply a very real warning about the future of all of our children.if you cannot understand the damage that Radioactive isotopes pose feel free to ingest some .Then i wont have to read the nonsense you naysayers are posting. Thank you to the writers for being brave enough to speak the truthMike Says:August 17th, 2013 at 11:16 pm I’m just glad Obama’s on the ball and focusing on saving the planet from global warming, or is that global cooling, ah…..just climate change since it keeps changing. Besides climate change sounds better coming from the man of change. Fukushima who?Facepalm Says:August 17th, 2013 at 11:29 pm …. (Takes a deep breath and tries to choose my words carefully so I don’t get shot down by one of the above trolls)….. Okay, okay, so stepping beside the mistake with the map, the fact that our seas are contaminated with our waste (both nuclear and non bio degradable), global warming is real, cancer is fatal, and a bunch of people spend money on weapons to protect themselves against “them” because the billion rest of us need to wake up – can I ask you to consider what difference all this makes on your own individual mortality and future? Can we agree that as human beings, all being exposed to different dangers in our own individual surroundings we share an even mortality? Not as much how many chances of dying from our exposure to our surroundings, but the fact that there is always a fatal disease, accident, incident or stray bullet just around the corner. Regardless of who did what and who is right here, the above comments really show the width and diversity of our beliefs and stand points. And you know what folks, they are a lot more scary than radioactive tuna and glow in the dark sushi. I am not going to argue against any of the above comments because they are just too varied and some more crazy than others, but essentially all have some chance of being right. So it really makes no difference at all. The only thing that would make a difference would be if we stopped addressing each other as “them”, considered not owning any weapon we wouldn’t want used on ourselves, realized that the Internet is not a source of real knowledge but a collection of the worlds information (and stacks of craziness), and actually boycotted every government or corporation that pollutes or wages war on our shared global society. But that is never going to happen, is it!? I would like to believe in “US” and a global agreement, but its pure science fiction and a utopian dream. Sadly things need to get a lot worse before we see any kind of real international cooperation and synergy. At this point in my comment, three of you are preparing to troll me, some have moved on to the sport results, several are now looking at cat videos, a lot of people are back on Facebook, most of you are tired, and nearly all of you need to go to sleep. If one or two decided to enjoy the rest of their lives never stepping on other people, getting into pointless arguments on the net, or ever threatening to shoot the neighbors dog again, well done. I am glad I could share my thoughts with you, from one humble human to another. One final note to those of us with personal faith, guns, cancer, aids, radiation sickness, no passport, or any life shortening disease: four of these are non-curable and I really pray that you will enjoy the life you have left to the fullest, two of these can be fixed by spending your money on traveling as much as possible, and only one is the way to your personal freedom. I’ll give you a hint, the last one is’nt guns.k.manley Says:August 18th, 2013 at 12:01 am The Bible doesn’t save, but God does. He created it all. He sees all and remembers all. So if you are one of His kids, you will be protected. Pray and listen. There is evil and there is God. Who do you stand with??FlyingCosak Says:August 18th, 2013 at 12:19 am here we sit as pawns you know that this world is ran by commerce ,corporations have more power than governments so they raise the bars for toxic limits and create recessions and depressions to suppress the middle class from stopping the greed factor ,everyone should realize that these guys are supposed to work for us not against us ,its time for us to unite and pull our heads out of the sand and become the human beings we are entitled to bebenwelgoed Says:August 18th, 2013 at 12:22 am About this being an ‘opinion piece’: Well, Gary signed up for that, considering that right under the headline it says: “Opinion by Gary Stamper”. Now about that “Scientists say the only safe level of radiation is zero.” In a way that’s true, since one cannot predict the damage that occurs. However, we ourselves, all living beings, dead objects, and everything we eat, drink and breath, ALL contain some low concentration of radioactive elements, causing what is called the ‘background radiation level’. There is no escaping from that, and so, the Scientists’ statement is as red a herring as it comes, and totally useless. It would be way more helpful to state the levels recorded and to compare that to the known background radiation level for various environments. Seems any and all official entities are falling short of their duty to measure the actual levels and to write a comprehensive comparison report on it all.Annie Simmonds Says:August 18th, 2013 at 12:51 am This is a world disaster, for it affects the world as a whole. I find it incomprehensible that governments have not taken this more seriously, and that most of the information has been kept from the public. There is no way yet of knowing how this might increase cancers in people throughout the world, as we are already poisoning ourselves with GM foods, antibiotics in animals and fish that s farmed. The human race is the most destructful species on this planet, and we had all better wake up and stop this insane destruction.Joe Hess Says:August 18th, 2013 at 1:09 am A suggestion? I’m not going to jump on either side of the assumption bandwagon, until I independently run a test proving to myself that your findings are true I’m not buying your golden wisdom, but I’m going to be more wary about what I feed myself and my family to be sure. Want more people to feel at ease about the information provided here? The entire article has the feel of hastily gathered notes and facts, not the polished feel of a well-formulated and presented body of information, and that rough feel isn’t going to help your goal of getting people to hear what you have to say. I know it’s getting in bed with a devil you may not like, but we’re all sleeping with it… clean your article up, make it more presentable, and you’ll have a bigger audience, whether you are speaking high truth or are hoodwinking us as much as you say the mainstream mindset, media and institution is…Kay Says:August 18th, 2013 at 3:34 am I am disgusted it read statements from people claiming the radiation will never reach the US and the radiation is diluted and not as bad as people think. Childhood leukemia is up 250% on the west coast of the USA. The clicks per minute of radiation is running 500-1000 across the country when it used to be 5 cpm of just solar radiation. I measured what was in the CPM in the USA and it contained plutonium 238/239 reactor and weapons grade, cesium 134, cesium 137, iodine 131, neptunium, strontium 90. This is what people are breathing and in the last few days the reactor started to steam and release radiation gases. The radiation from Fukushima is in every part of the world and there is no safe or diluted amount of radiation that won’t cause or DNA damage. Look at one particle of Plutonium in your lung does to lung tissue.JustAnotherFace Says:August 18th, 2013 at 3:43 am After Reading this article (And many others) about The Fukushima Incident and the Fallout, I have, along with most everyone else here, Decided that I am now an expert on Nuclear accidents and Radiation, making the Following statements I make on here law and Irrefutable. Radioactivity is bad. Prove me wrong. If ANY amount has leaked (Past) or is leaking (present) into the ocean, we need to find out why/where/how much and what the affects will be. Argue that point. I dare ya. *Insert pulp fiction scene here* Next,Give the guy a break people. He’s trying to do the research that each of you excuses-for-humanbeings should have been doing in the first place. Now you only do it (Very little of it) to criticize him. And to what end? Grow up and realize that what’s going on here is bigger than all of us. And even if you don’t agree with the information, Whether this is a huge problem or not yet is irrelevant at this point (Bear with me). The problem is that WE DONT KNOW WHETHER IT IS OR NOT. “Well why not?” It has the POTENTIAL to be a HUGE problem, and that’s an understatement. So why the hell don’t we know for sure if it’s something that could be such a big deal? Why doesn’t anyone Care? Beats me. We NEED to know in case it is. We can’t afford to be wrong. No single person or group of any kind is in a position to say otherwise. It’s MY Earth, and it’s YOUR Earth. Do your own damn homework before preaching. All of it. Welcome to the internet. And Thank you Gary Stamper for your previous and continuing effort to keep our lazy asses informed.aussie Says:August 18th, 2013 at 6:54 am Best reference for radiation spread can be found here.. http://sirocco.omp.obs-mip.fr/outils/Symphonie/Produits/Japan/SymphoniePreviJapan.htm Stands to reason ocean currents will have a play.michelle Says:August 18th, 2013 at 7:06 am I am apt to overlook the map. Common sense tells me that pollution of the seas and contamination of thefood chain is real and continues to run amuck. eas and contamination of they food chain isCarl Toothman Says:August 18th, 2013 at 12:51 pm All of the above could have been avoided if humans had enough sense to understand that we are not rabbits or rats, breeding out of control causing our present day population explosion, the root of all our evils.ErinLea Says:August 18th, 2013 at 1:08 pm IF YOU WANT THIS ARTICLE TAKEN SERIOUSLY, PLEASE PROVIDE AN INFOGRAPHIC THAT SHOWS A LEGEND, DATE, AND SOURCE LINK.filipreneurs Says:August 18th, 2013 at 1:52 pm This is scary if true. Do we have options left?Michael Says:August 18th, 2013 at 2:27 pm how is this fallout any different than the fallouts caused by the USA testing nukes in the pacific from 1946 to 1962… do you want to point out who’s most likely the country that causes cancer due to radiation, and how we can’t eat seafood from the pacific? yah right…feman Says:August 18th, 2013 at 2:34 pm Just another “news” article exploiting the ignorant with fear, same as the main-stream media do.Using a wave-height map as a radiation map in full knowledge that the casual reader will take it at face value totally undermines the authors credibility.In addition, 450 tons of radioactive water added to the pacific is diluted to negligible levels. The pacific contains 2,800,000,000,000,000,000 tons of water.The earth is naturally radioactive and there is no such thing as zero radiation anywhere on the planet, so if you want zero risk, you need too leave our solar system. Good luck with that.Please report the truth. Lies only serve to weaken any arguments made that address real threats to the planets health.finnishwahine Says:August 18th, 2013 at 3:23 pm the japanese dont give a shit…they will just take their factory ships to the other side of the planet. they rape and pilage without a thought to anyone but themselves. i do NOT feel sorry for them for anything that happened during wwII, you can bet you hinney that if they had the bomb first they would of dropped it without hesitation…pearl harbor just an example of their actions. they fish right off of kauai which is way illegal…i have seen their boats. they will fish the oceans till there is nothing left. they kill whales just because they want to. they dont consume it, they have tons of frozen whale meat and it it totally illegal to kill any whale. now they are threatened by this. if anyone thought they were being ho nest about what was freely flowing into the ocean is nuts. i have a friend in hawaii who is a captain of big vessels and they avoid japan because if they get any radiation on their hulls they will be denied entry into other harbors around the world! of course the governement is lying to us…duhINCIDENTE FUKUSHIMA aggiornamenti - Pagina 25 Says:August 18th, 2013 at 4:11 pm […] At the Very Least, Your Days of Eating Pacific Ocean Fish Are Over L'uomo ha scoperto la bomba atomica, però nessun topo costruirebbe una trappola per topi. (Albert Einstein) Rispondi quotando […]Stilts Says:August 18th, 2013 at 5:21 pm Wow! So much negativity here! So many people completely dismissing the ENTIRE article because the dude used the wrong graphic! Are you kidding me? All of these armchair scientists shouting down the article and the stats used therein. I wonder if these naysayers are also climate change deniers??? The two sound an awfully lot alike…LeeSummit Says:August 18th, 2013 at 6:20 pm So… this new video… if you read the actual article it comes from ( http://environmentalresearchweb.org/cws/article/news/50176 ), it says this in the second to last paragraph: “Tentatively assuming a value of 10 petabecquerel (PBq) for the net 137Caesium (Cs) input during the first weeks after the Fukushima incident, the simulation suggests a rapid dilution of peak radioactivity values to about 10 Bq/m³ during the first 2 years, followed by a gradual decline to 1–2 Bq/m³ over the next 4–7 years. The total peak radioactivity levels would then be about twice the pre-Fukushima values. “While this may sound alarming, these levels are still lower than those permitted for drinking water,” said Böning.” So, again… full context is important. Whether you mistake wave height for radiation, or say “the amount of radiation is going to double in the Pacific” without mentioning that double the amount of radiation is still considered a safe amount for drinking water… what you’re doing is lying by leaving out part of the story. The word for this is “prevaricating”. Learn it, because this word seems to be the whole foundation on which you stand.Jeanne Says:August 18th, 2013 at 6:30 pm These very things going on right now are the result of man ruining the earth for selfish gain….Even though some sincere efforts are being made today to reverse the damage to earth and its resources, many are concerned that such efforts are too little too late. The only permanent solution is found at Revelation 11:18. There the Bible states that Jehovah will “bring to ruin those ruining the earth.” Jehovah will not only eliminate the mismanagement of the earth and its resources but also ensure that the earth will produce abundantly for all its inhabitants. All obstinate disregard for God’s purpose and all exploitation of the earth for selfish personal advantage will be put to a stop. On the other hand, those who willingly support Jehovah’s rulership will experience the reality of the words found at Psalm 72:16: “There will come to be plenty of grain on the earth; on the top of the mountains there will be an overflow.” In his infinite love and wisdom, Jehovah has purposed that mankind will live in and care for their home—a paradise earth. (Genesis 1:28) Under his rulership, obedient mankind will learn to utilize natural resources wisely, without depleting earth’s abundant storehouse. How grateful we are for such a loving Provider, who will satisfy the desire of every living thing!—Psalm 145:16…..shared from jw.org….WatchtowerLeeSummit Says:August 18th, 2013 at 6:33 pm Not to be picky, but you’re also citing your sources incorrectly. It would be nice if you posted one of these scary simulation graphics/videos from it’s original source rather than a 3rd party blog that takes it out of context, or intentionally deleted that context to support their own agenda (cough – wave height). If you’re looking to win an argument using facts, citing a blog called “Jeromie Williams Eats the Internet for Breakfast” is not going to help. However, if you go to the source of the simulation he posted http://www.geomar.de/en/ , and search for “fukushima”, you are then taken here: http://www.geomar.de/en/service/kommunikation/singlepm/article/fukushima-wo-bleibt-das-radioaktive-wasser/ The first hit that comes up links you to the actual source of this graphic AND it’s accompanying article explaining what those scary colors swirling across the sea actually mean. Again, the source is here: http://environmentalresearchweb.org/cws/article/news/50176Sergi Kent Says:August 18th, 2013 at 7:39 pm I agree with “feman” above. Lies and hysterical overstatements weaken the cause of making our planet a better place. You still have the stupid wave height graphic up knowing it is completely unrelated to the radiation story. Why? One more hysteric falsehood. “Incredibly worrisome levels of cesium, including short-lived radioactive cesium-134, have been found near…”Really? Read the source article. In over two pounds of plankton, they found only half the radioactivity that is naturally found in a single banana and it was of a type that breaks down in 25 months. You need to go back to school and learn some science before you make a mockery of it.James Says:August 18th, 2013 at 9:44 pm I’d like to offer something a bit less polarized than the average comment has been thus far, and hopefully a bit more fair. Reading this kind of panic-inciting writing does make the skeptical reader see red flags. I am one of those who is a big fan of modern technology and who has an eye for pseudo-science. At the same time, it’s absolutely no secret that human technological advancements have proceeded in geological leaps and bounds. There is every reason to suspect and to expect that we do leave an impact on the ecosystem. Ecosystems develop and stabilize over massive periods of geological time. The ripple effects of suddenly disrupting those delicate ecosystems are very genuine and real. This article almost certainly makes claims that are not yet substantiated. But longitudinal studies require time. Just because the data aren’t in yet doesn’t mean a certain amount of damage isn’t being done. Clearly, we can’t all stop eating. But it is certainly time that we begin to look for solutions. We humans seem to have a knack for waiting until the last possible minute to take action. That may not be the wisest course when it comes to our planet.john hall Says:August 18th, 2013 at 10:16 pm Quit fear mongering and buy a gamma ray spectrophotometer and MEASURE the radiation levels in seafood or pay a lab to do it!steveN Says:August 18th, 2013 at 11:07 pm To Gary Stamper:Your new graphic is more like it. The spread of Radiation in the Pacific will depend on the oceanic currents, maps of which are freely available, and have obviously been adapted to your latest graphic. The time scales on that graphic are still a little long. There is already contamination of the American/Canadian Pacific coast. Whilst the US refuses to monitor. the Canadians actually switched off their monitors. Your title of the piece, is the greatest tragedy. The loss of a huge food resource for the earth’s people, and the suffering of those creatures. NaturalNews.com is on this story too. The more sites we can get this on, means we can subvert the global elite media conspiracy of silence. Just keep at it!clive Says:August 18th, 2013 at 11:43 pm I don’t doubt this is a big issue we should be concerned about. It is. But that does not change the fact that several of the items you note are unfounded and inaccurate speculation. Like the polar bear article. You are basing that it is radiation on what evidence? There are other diseases that cause this. And you ignore that the problem in other mammals was occurring BEFORE the Fukushima disaster, just in smaller numbers. You don’t think global warming might cause stress and starvation issues from problems with their normal hunting patterns. But before they have done testing that shows they have radiation contamination you are already using that in your article as support for your article. Things like this are why people are being critical of your page. Not because you are raising concern. Add in the claims of several of your bullet points not having any citation at all. Or the links go to something that isn’t a citation: Alaska Halibut also found with same Fuku-cesium contaminant – but did not migrate to Japan’s waters. How did cesium-134 get into Alaska halibut? All your link there did was take me to a wiki page on Halibut, not an article on contamination detected. Do you not see the issue? You could have done this page without speculation and distortion and still raised a serious alarm. I’m all for you getting the word out using the FACTS. Not speculation or theory. But FACTs. What you are doing is Yellow journalism. And sadly you are your own worst enemy here. You do more harm to getting a legitimate concern out to people by resorting to this sort of yellow journalism.Genevieve Says:August 19th, 2013 at 12:38 am It is so funny to hear all the negative comments from people. Are you guys even thinking for yourself? Water moves freely in the ocean. Of course it is going to spread all over. You don’t need to be a scientist to figure this out! How do you think they are going to pump out the contaminated water from the rest of the ocean? It really makes sense to you? And where are they going to put it? I don’T understand why you don’t want to believe this is happening, because you don’T want your life to change?Sad Fish Says:August 19th, 2013 at 12:53 am Just posted this link on my Facebook, saying “it is not stupid to be worried”… and this is what a frined that lives on Vancouver island replied right away : “We should all be worried .I have a really good giger counter .A few months ago I tested a fresh batch of merrell mushrooms and it was 50% more radioactive than background radiation.I also tested a FROZEN salmon and it was reading about 20 % higher .My friend ate it for supper that night .I could only shake my head.”j Says:August 19th, 2013 at 4:07 am it’s a waste of time trying to educate people who refuse to listen or learn. but, i was very suspicious about the radiation threats to the water. i started researching this compared to chernobyl, and one of the biggest differences was the air and water vs being landlocked. the levels were different, but chernobyl is still a forbidden area, no one goes there for very long at all. usually never in one place, just walking through b/c they’re doing a documentary or something. otherwise it’s a ghost-town. i think everyone knows that though, but compared to this, everything goes straight into the water. major amounts of wind blowout, in addition to whatever is going out through the land. and japan is only the size of california. i was in korea right before it happened, then i can back. when i got back, i was happy because i knew it would be safer to be further away. it breaks my heart for japan. i know the sea and land is a huge love, and way beyond. and i pray for my friends there, i love JP, because of my loved ones there. nuclear waste is powerful. my heart breaks.Rob Says:August 19th, 2013 at 4:46 am I’m all for reading everything I can about being safe, for the sake of myself and my family. Obviously, looking at some of the negative, egotistical, and naive statements made in response to the post only proves that many humnas simply are not that intelligent. Good luck to you, you’ll need it, since that’s about all you have…Chris Sandys Says:August 19th, 2013 at 6:17 am Ha Ha – Liberals debunked by their own over-reach. Wow, at this rate, an entire Olympic sized pool of minimally radioactive water into the Pacific every 8 days. You guys (gals – “Genevieve” for example) are being laughed at by us.Meris Says:August 19th, 2013 at 6:26 am Because of its 104 nuclear reactors on the soil of the U.S., the authorities and mainstream media are trying to keep Americans in ignorance about the seriousness of the effects of the Fukushima nuclear catastrophe on health and the environment in the U.S. and in Japan. Here is a chilling article about adverse genetic effects from Chernobyl appearing in future generations, also projected for the populations in Fukushima written by a renowned Swiss professor and member of International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War : http://mieuxprevenir.blogspot.ch/2012/11/fukushima-precious-tims-has-been-lost.htmlkatherine isheim Says:August 19th, 2013 at 6:50 am good the sooner the people of this world is gone from it the better off it will be bring on death but just to humansroger Says:August 19th, 2013 at 7:49 am You could take an image from Ken Buessler’s presentation at Helen’s symposium last March. His PDF presentation included a graphic showing releases through Nov. 2012 which is about as recent as your gonna get. Sorry, there isn’t a way to upload an image.Fayola- A Research Student Says:August 19th, 2013 at 9:31 am If someone warns me or shares information I should look into which may preserve my health, prolong my life and that of my descendants I will stop and research further. As a precaution, if there is ANY imminent danger to my well being or my family, I will avoid the source until it is KNOWN to be safe. This seems like a no brainer. I could be wrong,and I love wild caught Pacific salmon. After taking all my precautions, then I would research further for reputable sources before forming a final personal opinion returning to my former fish eating habits. You just can’t go back after the damage is done. Debates and resistance are useless after the fact. Ultimately, everyone here simply has a personal decision, do I change my habits or continue with them? It’s personal. As for me, I consider the record of the FDA, the EPA and Greed questionable enough that I am taking my own safety measures. Just my take.Eric Says:August 19th, 2013 at 10:27 am beware of 40 cm of radiationFayola- A Research Student Says:August 19th, 2013 at 11:05 am World Nuclear News has substantial data on this http://www.world-nuclear-news.org/RS_Groundwater_works_intensify_at_Fukushima_1508131.htmlSub genius Says:August 19th, 2013 at 12:18 pm Thanks for trying to get the word out. As you obviously know it is a thankless endeavour. Most of the people left in this world only care about themselves and questioning the world interrupts our precariously constructed reality.Keep up the good fight. Haters gonna hate.RC Says:August 19th, 2013 at 2:29 pm If there were no safe levels of radiation than no one would be allowed to work near nuclear reactors, yet I have and I’m fine. As part of a teaching lab I got to expose samples to highly radioactive material and I’m fine, as is everyone else in the class. Believe it or not there are safe levels of radiation, even atomic radiation, which for the record isn’t a thing. There is alpha, beta, and gamma radiation and they are not equally bad for you. But in all cases there are acceptable limits, like with radiation therapy. This is the same nonsense as the LHC, non scientific people ranting about science they do not understand.Anonymous Says:August 19th, 2013 at 3:59 pm Excuse me but radiation from nuclear fallout is NOT FINE. Didn’t you see the Fukashima veggies in Japan? Every earthquake is potential for another Fukashima to happen. We were clearly warned that God will destroy those who destroy the Earth, so don’t think going to church on Sunday is going to save anybody. Disengage the power plants while we still have a chance. Haven’t you noticed the increased frequency and intensity of earthquakes over the past 10 years? Wake UP.CheezisLuvzyu Says:August 19th, 2013 at 4:21 pm Go back to your X-box people.Nothing to see here.If it was important it would be on TV.Your governments and your religions got your back.Morgaine Hager Says:August 19th, 2013 at 5:09 pm Say what you will.. Very few doctors do any testing that actually shows presence of radiation in the HUMAN body. I have been testing humans for about 20 years for environmental toxins. Suddenly in the past 6 months radiation is showing up. Am I concerned? You bet. I live on the coast of Washington State. At the very least babies need to be monitored for hypothyroidism. We definitely have a public health system with heads in the sand. If we don’t look, of course we don’t find it. Panic? We should have been concerned a very long time ago about many substances causing cancer and other “diseases”. We are concerned with finding the “cure”, for instance new and better chemotherapy. I want to walk for thePrevention. What a concept.Tyler Says:August 19th, 2013 at 7:35 pmhttp://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/energy/2013/08/130819-japan-ice-wall-for-fukushima-radioactive-leaks/ Hard to find info, huh? I typed the word “Fukushima” into Google, which finished the spelling for me, and this National Geographic article was the top hit: Fear mongering and spreading misinformation and disinformation only exacerbates the issue. If you don’t understand the science, and can’t site reputable sources, please keep your OPINIONS to your self.RussD. Says:August 19th, 2013 at 7:48 pm to all the nay sayers everybody thought Noah lost his marbles when he was building the ark but guess who didn’t drown Noah.Fayola- A Research Student Says:August 19th, 2013 at 7:49 pm MORE REPORTS FROM WORLD NUCLEAR.ORG much of which appears to agree with this article, at least in part. There is a paragraph on the fish and radioactivity in the water. http://www.world-nuclear.org/Features/Fukushima/Situation-at-Fukushima/mike smith Says:August 19th, 2013 at 8:04 pm Well, Godzilla had to come from somewhere didn’t he?Amanda Wilson Says:August 19th, 2013 at 10:28 pm This article is horribly incorrect. The articles you cite to your points contradict what you say, not reviewed in any way, are not based on any scientific evidence whatsoever and extremely bias. It’s a shame that people like you are able to propagate such misinformation, You should be ashamed to have this website.T. Norman Says:August 20th, 2013 at 12:15 am “Oh my god…an asteroid is going to hit us in 300 years…this is the worst thing to happen to the human race”C’mon…wasn’t it the climate people saying that the oceans will rise to unsustainable levels, that the icecaps are melting at an exponential rate?This gal may know what she’s talking about when it comes to the science of radioactive elements, but she does not know how the radiation from the Japanese plant will effect the worlds ecosystem.I will end by saying “I’ll believe it when I see it.”Mimi Says:August 20th, 2013 at 1:05 am Thank you for posting this. I’m sick at the trashing of our planet. And the steady stream of radioactivity streaming from Fukushima seems beyond anyone’s power to solve. Nuclear power is fine and great and wonderful, but you’d better make sure the reactor part of the system is located at least 93 million miles away to avoid contamination issues.Alan Carr Says:August 20th, 2013 at 1:40 am Gary, adding video & quotes by Dr. Helen Caldecott further erodes your credibility. No where in her biography does she indicate any studies in nuclear science or related areas. You can read all about her failed political campaigns, anti-nuclear protests and her rage against the machine. Cherry-picking data is an insult to your readers-STOP IT.Keith G Says:August 20th, 2013 at 1:59 am The thing that bugs me is that the website is so screwed up that you can’t even read the whole thing because words are being truncated. Lame science, lame research and lame presentation.clive Says:August 20th, 2013 at 2:07 am Genevieve Says, “I don’T understand why you don’t want to believe this is happening” Try reading the constructive criticism. It isn’t that all of us don’t think there is a problem coming. It is that with all the irregularities, inaccuracies, to completely false claims by the article the page does more harm than good. For example again, the problem found on polar bears and other mammals was occurring BEFORE Fukushima. Just not as often. But then before Fukushima Sea ice levels were better. The same sea ice the bear rely on for hunting their primary food source. Seals. The author presumes without any facts that it is radiation, not simple starvation affecting and stress diseases as a result of that starvation. You don’t see the problem with that? The author should have stuck to the facts, not Yellow Journalism. And now has given the denialists all the leverage they want by showing this page as an example of lies. That hurts getting an honest warning out.News Says:August 20th, 2013 at 2:09 am Just reported on NHK Japanese news station 300 tons of contaminated water is sealing into ocean each dayclive Says:August 20th, 2013 at 2:15 am @Fayola That main claim of the reactor leaking more than previously is about the only part that is accurate on this page. It is too bad that the author didn’t just stick to that.Joel Says:August 20th, 2013 at 2:40 am OK, all of you doubters and apologists for the nuclear interests, or perhaps you just don’t like science, perhaps you could consider this: Very large pieces of debris for the disaster in Japan are reaching our shores: Boats, houses, pieces of factories, etc. Do you really think that the radioactive water from the power plant is not headed our way? I suggest you eat all the fish you want, and surf well. You are STUPID, and on your way out. You cannot deny science, you cannot dent the tides, you cannot deny the currents, and you sure as hell cannot deny the fact that radioactive water is poisoning the pacific fish and has headed our way. Are you scared? Does that make you a denier? Or are you just a fool? Go to the beach. Hang out often, eat fish you catch. I give you three years to have lymphoma, kidney/pancreatic cancer, absolute impotence, and a host of other maladies. At least you will die young and stupid.John Pettitt Says:August 20th, 2013 at 4:32 am There are 2.8 billion cubic kilometers of water in the Pacific so 400 tons of contamination is 400 / 2.8*10^18 or one part contaminated water per 7,000,000,000,000,000 or 1 in 7 QuadrillionKeep in mind the contaminated water is itself in the parts per million range so the actual contamination level is in the parts per Sextillion range.While there could be hotspots, particularly close to the plant, the risk posed to the Pacific food chain is as close to zero as makes no difference.Bob Says:August 20th, 2013 at 4:40 am 2,500,000,000 Bq/liter max radioactivity in leaky trench water reported by TEPCO2,500,000,000,000 Bq/Ton (1000 liters/ton)1,125,000,000,000,000 Bq/day at 450 tons/day1,145,643,750,000,000,000 Bq/3 years (assuming Cesium-137 half-life of 30.17 yr) 748,759,660,251,428,000 tons of Pacific Ocean (170,000,000 cubic miles)492,750 tons Fukushima water released in 3 years0.0000000000658% percent of Pacific Ocean that is contaminated753,934 Bq/ton in Pacific Ocean (assuming 100% dispersal)754 Bq/liter (1000 liters/ton)94 Bq per 8 oz theoretical (assuming seafood assimilates at 1:1 vs water)0.17 Bq per 8 oz actual Bluefin tuna (highest measured, at 5 Bq in a 15 Kg fish) 50 Bq/cubic meter house air (due to radon, avg USA house)66,115 Bq airborne in avg 1,800sf house500 2-liter breaths in a cubic meter21,600 breaths/day at 15 per minute43 cubic meters breath per day2,160 Bq/day typical exposure from house air0.0077% percent of Bq per day, eating 8 oz tuna at its highest published radiation12,960 times greater measured health risk from breathing than from eating fish 8 oz/day4.36% percent of Bq per day, eating 8 oz seafood at theoretical radiation dispersal23 times greater theoretical health risk from breathing than from eating fish 8 oz/daydeBeer Says:August 20th, 2013 at 6:17 am Just got back from Washington, BC and Alaska. The wildlife was abundant and healthy looking. Fishing was phenomenal. In Juneau there were literally hundreds of thousands of healthy large salmon. All along the coast the sane story. River after river, stream after stream filled with healthy salmon and hungry and healthy looking bears eagles etc. Bottom fish such as Halibut were also plentiful with no signs of disease or stress. I live in So Cal and the blue fin tuna look extremely healthy, although no albacore run to speak of this year…but that happensKia Mistilis Says:August 20th, 2013 at 6:18 am Hello everyone, Here is a detailed report on the global effects of the Fukushima nuclear disaster, posted in Marcg, 2013. The information is backed by scientific and medical sources, which are credible and independent of the nuclear industry. Our govts and the world’s mainstream media cannot be relied upon to inform us, so we have to educate ourselves. This is a self education website for the benefit of communities world wide. Please consider reading the Fukushima report, checking out the links and sources, and sharing with your networks.Kia Mistilisindependent journalist. http://www.nukefreefuture.com/fukushima2012/Ken Says:August 20th, 2013 at 8:32 am Fantastic information and insight on something that won’t be presented on common media platform.For those people complaining about the credibility and reliability of information. Why don’t you disprove it by providing some of your ‘accurate’ information?That I’d like to see.drusilla Says:August 20th, 2013 at 11:51 am It is very clear…nuclear power,is poisening the plant with the multitude of emissions,(industrial)poisening from factories,the seas with radioactive waste,oil rigs in the millions,holes in the ozone, exploration,dynomiting,deforresting,fracking,polluted inland waters,this planet whether you accept it or not is in a lot of trouble from us…….so stop writing and do something positive,get on the streets….protest with your person…scaremongering?no..a wake up call…that or just go sleepwalkinng to your death,and leave the next genration with ourstinking mess.At 71 having marched against nuc since I was a girlbeing entirely convinced of what I see of the world,act now,or pay the price through our children and future genrationsFacepalm Says:August 20th, 2013 at 12:51 pm Great to see so many people repeating each other’s points, missing the point entirely or just showing off their extreme level of ignorance, racism and prejudice. We have no right to point blame at any authority as long as we sit on our asses and try and google each other into submission with links and statements that should prove the other guy wrong. Get on with your lives people and consider every single word you type or utter. Those of us with faith, we need to stop preaching and truly understand the message and example shown to us in scripture. Only by doing and acting on our faith can we be of any use to our fellow human beings. Without mentioning any of the above posters by name, some of you need to stay away from posting your opinions anywhere online or voicing them in public, you will get hurt. Anonymity is a false shelter to hide in, what goes around comes around. And to those citing common sense, fantastic, I am glad I am not alone. There are a lot of well grounded people out there who know how to filter news and base opinion on real knowledge and experience. And then there are the Fox News viewers who even non-Christian observers continue to pray for as they get further and further sucked into the hole created by Rupert Murdoch and his minions. Dumbness has no cure and can be spread across borders and continents by so many different carriers that it is hard to protect yourself. If you take precautions like reading books, traveling outside your home country and examining the opinions and statements of people you disagree with you stand a good chance of never being hit by this awful disease. Have a great day everyone.Matt Says:August 20th, 2013 at 2:08 pm A little radiation might be good for fish if it stops us eating them…Chad Says:August 20th, 2013 at 2:34 pm Scientist are aware that there is a background radiation level. Banana’s emit radiation. Im not downplaying the severity of the fukushima incident, however you need to keep your brains about you, and not be such an alarmist. Yes Fukushima ha