Summary - Severe thunderstorms have caused flooding in New Orleans. A tropical storm is also forecast in the Gulf of Mexico which could affect the coastal areas of Louisiana and Alabama from Friday 12 July. You should monitor local weather updates from the National Weather Service and follow the advice of local authorities.Around 3.8 million British nationals visit the United States every year. Most visits are trouble free. Take out comprehensive travel and medical insurance before you travel.Severe thunderstorms have caused flooding in New Orleans. A tropical storm is also forecast in the Gulf of Mexico which could affect the coastal areas of Louisiana and Alabama from Friday 12 July. You should monitor local weather updates from the National Weather Service and follow the advice of local authorities.At 10.33am on Thursday 4 July, an earthquake struck southern California. The magnitude 6.4 tremor was centred about 125 miles northeast of Los Angeles in the remote Searles Valley area near where Inyo, San Bernardino and Kern counties meet. There have already been a number of aftershocks - including one on 5 July at 20:19 with a magnitude of 7.1 - and these are likely to continue. There are reports of fires and other damage in affected areas. If you’re in the area, you should follow local media for updates and follow the advice of local authorities (who have declared a state of emergency). Further advice on preparing for and dealing with the effects of an earthquake is available on the Federal Emergency Management website.Before travelling, you should check forecasts for any weather warnings on the US National Weather Service website. The site also offers helpful tips on dealing with any extreme weather. You should be aware that the Atlantic hurricane season runs from 1 June to 30 November. The Pacific hurricane season runs from 15 May to 30 November. Further details are on the US Ready campaign website.You’ll need prior authorisation to enter the United States using a British passport, either through a visa, a Permanent Resident Card, or the Visa Waiver Programme. Restrictions apply depending on the type of passport you hold, your nationality, criminal history, and countries you may have recently visited. Visa and other entry conditions can change at short notice. It’s your responsibility to know and understand the rules of entry before you travel. See Entry requirementsTerrorists are very likely to try to carry out attacks in the USA. Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners. You should monitor media reports and remain vigilant at all times. See TerrorismUK health authorities have classified the United States as having a risk of Zika virus transmission in Florida, Texas (Cameron County and Hidalgo County only), Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands. See HealthYou should be alert to the dangers of car and street crime. See Safety and securitySnow storms during winter can cause delays and cancellations throughout airports in the USA. See Natural disastersIf you’re abroad and you need emergency help from the UK government, contact the nearest British embassy, consulate or high commission.