b'The American economy plunged deeper into crisis last month, losing 20.5 million jobs as the unemployment rate jumped to 14.7 percent, the worst devastation since the Great Depression.\n\nThe Labor Departments monthly report on Friday provided the clearest picture yet of the breadth and depth of the economic damage  and how swiftly it spread  as the coronavirus pandemic swept the country.\n\nJob losses have encompassed the entire economy, affecting every major industry. Areas like leisure and hospitality had the biggest losses in April, but even health care shed more than a million jobs. Low-wage workers, including many women and members of racial and ethnic minorities, have been hit especially hard.\n\nIts literally off the charts, said Michelle Meyer, head of U.S. economics at Bank of America. What would typically take months or quarters to play out in a recession happened in a matter of weeks this time.\n\nUnemployment rate Source: Department of Labor\n\nFrom almost any vantage point, it was a bleak report. The share of the adult population with a job, at 51.3 percent, was the lowest on record. Nearly 11 million people reported working part time because they couldnt find full-time work, up from about four million before the pandemic.\n\nIf anything, the numbers probably understate the economic distress.\n\nMillions more Americans have filed unemployment claims since the data was collected in mid-April. Whats more, because of issues with the way workers are classified, the Labor Department said the actual unemployment rate last month might have been closer to 20 percent.\n\nIt remains possible that the recovery, too, will be swift, and that as the pandemic retreats, businesses that were fundamentally healthy before the virus will reopen, rehire and return more or less to normal. The one bright spot in Fridays report was that nearly 80 percent of the unemployed said they had been temporarily laid off and expected to return to their jobs in the coming months.\n\nShare of unemployed on temporary layoffs Source: Department of Labor\n\nPresident Trump endorsed this view in an interview Friday morning on Fox News. Those jobs will all be back, and theyll be back very soon, Mr. Trump said, and next year were going to have a phenomenal year.\n\nBut Diane Swonk, chief economist at Grant Thornton, said that such optimism was misplaced, and that many of the jobs could not be recovered.\n\nThis is going to be a hard reality, Ms. Swonk said. These furloughs are permanent, not temporary.\n\nMany businesses have indicated that employees can work from home throughout the summer, hurting sales at downtown restaurants. Meetings and conferences have been put off as well, reducing demand at hotels and other gathering places. And the longer the pandemic lasts, the more businesses will fail, deepening the downturn.\n\nThe broad nature of the job cuts, too, means it will take longer for the labor market to recover than if the losses were confined to one or two areas.\n\nThere is no safe place in the labor market right now, said Martha Gimbel, an economist and labor market expert at Schmidt Futures, a philanthropic initiative. Once people are unemployed, once theyve lost their jobs, once their spending has been sucked out of the economy, it takes so long to come back from that.\n\nShare of the population that is employed Source: Department of Labor\n\nCarrie Hines, a managing director at an advertising firm in Austin, Texas, had the kind of professional job  adaptable to working from home  that seemed insulated from the pandemics effects. But her firm worked closely with companies in the airline, hotel and amusement park industries. When their business evaporated as a result of the outbreak, it was only a matter of time before Ms. Hiness firm felt the impact. She was laid off April 20.\n\nI was shocked, she said. Ive never had a gap in work since college.\n\nMs. Hines and her husband are cutting back where they can, and they have canceled plans to send their three children to summer camp. I never imagined this kind of job market where the entire advertising industry has been crushed, she said.\n\nThe scale of the job losses last month alone far exceed the 8.7 million lost in the last recession, when unemployment peaked at 10 percent in October 2009.\n\nI thought the Great Recession was once in a lifetime, but this is much worse, said Beth Ann Bovino, chief U.S. economist at S&P Global.\n\nThe only comparable period is when unemployment reached about 25 percent in 1933, before the government began publishing official statistics. Then as now, workers from a variety of backgrounds found themselves with few prospects for quickly landing a new job.\n\nThe governments official definition of unemployment typically requires people to be actively looking for work, making the measure ill suited to a crisis in which the government is encouraging people to stay home. Some 6.4 million people left the labor force entirely in April, meaning they were neither working nor looking for work.\n\nJoblessness  by any measure  could be even higher in the report for May, which will reflect conditions next week. Some economists say the unemployment rate should fall over the summer as people begin to return to work. Several states have begun to reopen their economies, and others are expected to do so in coming weeks.\n\nMonthly change in jobs by industry\n\nBut with the virus untamed, its not clear how quickly customers will return to businesses. And epidemiologists and economists warn that if states move too quickly, they could risk a second wave of infections, imperiling public health and the economy.\n\nThat would stop people from shopping and cause austerity, Ms. Bovino said.\n\nFor businesses, the uncertainty about the path of the pandemic and about consumers response to it is making planning difficult.\n\nWhen Austin Ramirez heard about the new coronavirus earlier this year, his initial concern was for his supply chain. Mr. Ramirez runs Husco International, a manufacturer of hydraulic and electromechanical components for cars and other equipment. The company has a factory in China and receives parts from suppliers there and around the world.\n\nBy April, virtually the entire U.S. auto industry was shut down, Husco included. (The companys nonautomotive production continued at a reduced rate.) Mr. Ramirez said he didnt know when business would bounce back. His goal is to weather the storm.\n\nTheres no visibility or certainty on what the future demand is going to look like, he said. We cant build a business model that relies on there being a big recovery six months from now.\n\nWhile most of Huscos roughly 750 North American workers have been furloughed during the crisis, the company has mostly avoided large-scale, permanent job cuts. Mr. Ramirez said he expected that most of his workers would come back when he needs them.\n\nBut particularly in industries like retail and hospitality, layoffs that were initially temporary might not remain so as bankruptcies mount and business owners confront shifts in consumer behavior.\n\nMost forecasters expect the unemployment rate to remain elevated at least through 2021, and probably longer. That means that it will be years before workers enjoy the bargaining power that was beginning to bring them faster wage gains and better benefits before the crisis.\n\nJob seekers are going to have less leverage, said Julia Pollak, a labor economist at the employment marketplace ZipRecruiter. Were no longer going to see mostly employed job seekers browsing and looking for better matches and higher pay. Youre going to see job seekers desperate to pay the bills.\n\nResearch this week from economists at the ADP Research Institute, the University of Chicago and the Federal Reserve found that low-wage workers have suffered a disproportionate share of job losses in the crisis so far.\n\nRecessions always tend to affect employment for low-wage, low-skilled workers, but the magnitude of the difference between low-wage and high-wage workers, thats remarkable, said Ahu Yildirmaz, an economist at the ADP Research Institute and an author of the study.\n\nIbelis Gonzalez worked as a server for Ruths Chris Steak House in Jersey City, N.J., until she was let go in March. She is hoping her job will return when the chain reopens, but she knows there are no guarantees, as patrons may be hesitant to dine out at first.\n\nWe dont know if they will have a skeleton staff, said Ms. Gonzalez, who earned $600 to $800 a week, nearly all of it from tips. People may not have the money to go out and have a $100 steak.\n\nShe has been trying to file for unemployment insurance but hasnt been able to reach the states Department of Labor and Workforce Development. Im not looking for a handout; Im just looking for these benefits, she said. I dont have a dollar to my name.'