Was Joan Rivers’ death preventable? New information suggests that Rivers should not have gone into cardiac arrest on that fateful August day. According to Radar Online, Joan’s daughter Melissa is ready to take legal action against the clinic that performed a “routine endoscopy” that went terribly wrong.“It’s become very clear to Melissa and experts she has spoken to that her mother didn’t have to die. This was a routine endoscopy that went wrong. Melissa has also been told that staff members at Yorkville Endoscopy revealed a shocking detail to medical investigators looking into Joan’s death — something occurred during the procedure that wasn’t medically related.”Joan Rivers’ death was unexpected, and learning that she didn’t have to die is perhaps the hardest part. Many people suspect that something out of the ordinary happened when Joan was put under for her procedure, especially since her doctor (Dr. Cohen) parted ways with Yorkville Endoscopy right after the incident with Rivers occurred. Sources say that Melissa Rivers wants to wait until she learns her mother’s cause of death before she takes legal action.“It was something related to Joan’s personal ear, nose and throat doctor and it wasn’t about the unplanned biopsy she did. Melissa will await the outcome of the official medical investigation and then absolutely file the lawsuits.”According to CNN, staffers at the clinic revealed that Dr. Cohen took a selfie with Joan Rivers while she was under anesthesia. Also, Dr. Cohen reportedly took a biopsy of something that he found during the endoscopy without Rivers’ consent. It very well may have been the biopsy that caused Rivers to stop breathing.“Investigators believe that Rivers’ vocal chords began to swell during the allegedly unauthorized biopsy, cutting off the flow of oxygen to her lungs, which led to cardiac arrest on the morning of August 29, the source said.”As previously reported by The Inquisitr, Joan was rushed to Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan after a staff member called 911. Despite resuscitation efforts, Rivers was placed on life support when she was admitted to the hospital. There had been so many rumors about Joan “getting better” and “pulling through,” but once Melissa confirmed that her mom was on life support, the public sort of figured that things weren’t improving.Rivers passed away on Sept. 4 (exactly one week after being admitted to the hospital) after being taken off life support.[Photo courtesy of Hampton Roads]