b'The conspiracy theory began in 2017 when someone claiming to have top-secret information began posting under a pseudonym to the online message board 4chan. Those continuing posts from the person identified as Q have woven a fantastical plot about the planets elites: a global cabal of politicians and celebrities controlling governments, media, banks and a child sex-trafficking ring.\n\nThe posts portray Mr. Trump as a heroic mastermind working with patriotic members of government to dismantle the cabal and deep state actors, leading up to mass arrests of the likes of former President Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and others. Adherents pore over each new Q message, hunting for clues and patterns, pointing out coincidences involving the number 17 because Q is the 17th letter of the alphabet and embracing theories such as the idea that John F. Kennedy Jr. faked his own death and is alive now posting as Q.\n\nWhile some of Qs most fundamental claims  for example, that the investigation by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election would actually end with prominent Democrats being imprisoned at Guantnamo Bay  have never come to fruition, the movement has continued to seep into mainstream conservative circles. Mr. Trump has stoked the flames with references to deep state and retweets of Qanon adherents. Q signs have appeared at rallies for Mr. Trump, and believers have been arrested in a series of troubling episodes, including an armed standoff near the Hoover Dam.\n\nThose actions have raised growing fears that delusional theories about a covert battle for global control could lead to more violence. Last May, the F.B.I. included QAnon in an intelligence bulletin that warned of potential violence stemming from fringe political conspiracy theories. But pushback against the conspiracy theory has been met with yet further theories of a growing plot.\n\nI believe that that was some of the deep state actors in the F.B.I. trying to put out disinformation, said Ms. Perkins, an insurance agent who had previously lost primary campaigns for seats in Congress in 2018, 2016 and 2014. She has promoted other issues in her campaign, including expanding the wall at the border with Mexico and restricting the size of the federal government.'