b'Then the states governor, Bill Lee, a Republican, took to the lectern and was asked if Dr. Birx had pressed him to issue a statewide mandate. We talked about statewide mandates. We also talked about alternative approaches, he said. Tennessee reported 2,871 new cases on Sunday, the most it has reported in a single day, according to a New York Times database.\n\nIt was another example of how the nations patchwork of rules and recommendations at different levels of government has complicated efforts to control the virus.\n\nFederal health officials issue guidelines and make recommendations, but state and local officials do not always follow them. Mr. Trump has been dismissive of or slow to promote some federal recommendations  it took weeks for him to appear in a mask after health experts called for face coverings  and suggested on Monday that more governors should reopen.\n\nAs Kentucky officials weighed new restrictions, Dr. Birx said over the weekend that the leaders of nearby states should consider doing the same by closing bars again and issuing restrictions on public gatherings to really make it possible to control the pandemic before it gets worse.\n\nGov. Andy Beshear of Kentucky said Monday that the states bars would have to close again to slow the spread, about a month after they had reopened. He also reduced the legal restaurant capacity from 50 percent to 25 percent, and issued an informal recommendation that schools wait until the third week of August to resume in-person classes.\n\nKentucky had already implemented two other recommendations put forward by Dr. Birx: requiring face masks for public indoor spaces, and limiting social gatherings to 10 people. I dont want to be a state where casket makers are running out, Mr. Beshear said.\n\nStates in the South and Midwest are facing the prospect of shutting down parts of their economies again to try to stem the virus, which the Trump administration and many governors have increasingly been forced to recognize as unrelenting. Florida has surpassed New York, an early center of the pandemic in the United States when testing was scarce, in the number of known cases. And on Monday, Oklahoma and New Mexico broke state records for single-day cases. Texas became the fourth state to record over 400,000 total cases, after California, Florida and New York.'