Early this year, NASA detected a mysterious object at the edge of our solar system – and said it would sail safely past Earth.Troll who mocked Katie Price's disabled son Harvey has been sacked »But one self-styled astronomer claims they are wrong – and that not only will it hit Earth, it’s a part of the mysterious death planet Nibiru!On February 16, a massive space rock will hit Earth – followed by the death planet itself, according to Mysterious UniverseWe should note at this point that there’s no scientific evidence Nibiru even exists – and that internet maniacs predict that it will destroy Earth with mind-numbing regularity, and that it never, ever does.Self-styled astronomer Dyomin Damir Zakharovich says, ‘NASA is lying through its teeth. It is not conceivable that they do not know the truth. We have seen the data!‘The object they call WF9 left the Nibiru system in October when Nibiru began spinning counter clockwise around the sun. Since then, NASA has known it will hit Earth. But they are only telling people now.’‘And this is just a precursor to the damage Nibiru will cause when it gets here. NASA probably knows the impact zone. I do not. We are all in peril.’Dr Zakharovich believes that there’s a global conspiracy to conceal the existence of Nibiru – orchestrated by the leaders of Russia and the West.‘The object is larger than NASA says. Our preliminary data suggested a 2.2km asteroid that will have no problem penetrating the atmosphere without burning up.He claims it will destroy a city or cause huge tsunamis – and then Nibiru itself will arrive, and God knows what will happen.Good thing it’s all total, unadulterated b*llocks, then.What is Nibiru - and should we be scared?    Aaargh! (Picture Getty) For decades, conspiracy theorists have predicted that an unseen planet beyond Neptune – called Nibiru or Planet X – is going to destroy Earth. But in case you’re worried, you should note that Nibiru (or Planet X) was widely predicted to hit our planet in December 2015, and before that in September 2015. Prior to that, it was predicted to smash into our planet to coincide with the Mayan apocalypse in 2012 – and before that, Nancy Lieder, an American website writer who claimed to have an alien implant in her brain, predicted it would destroy the world in 2003. NASA has thoroughly debunked the Nibiru myth via its Beyond 2012 page, saying, ‘Nibiru and other stories about wayward planets are an Internet hoax. There is no factual basis for these claims. If Nibiru or Planet X were real and headed for an encounter with the Earth, astronomers would have been tracking it for at least the past decade, and it would be visible by now to the naked eye.’ Soviet-born American writer Zecharia Sitchin first wrote about Nibiru in his hit 1976 book ‘The 12th Planet’ where he claimed it was inhabited by a race of ‘ancient aliens’ – the Annunaki – who had created the human race. Sitchin’s work remains in print and has a devoted following around the world. Nigel Watson, author of the UFO Investigations Manual says, ‘Zecharia Sitchin claims that Nibiru collided with a planet called Tiamat that was situated between Mars and Jupiter. The result was the creation of the asteroid belt and planet Earth.’ ‘Nibiru is populated by the Anunnaki, an advanced humanoid race, who visited Earth thousands of years to mine gold in Africa. As an outcome of needing workers to carry out these mining operations they used genetics to create Homo Sapiens.’The object called 2016 WF9 was detected by the NEOWISE project on Nov. 27, 2016.It might once have been a comet, or it could have strayed from a population of dark objects in the main asteroid belt – but it’s not thought to pose a threat to Earth.