b'Were going to put out an executive order today. New York State on pause  only essential businesses will be functioning. 100% of the workforce must stay home. This is the most drastic action we can take. Everything is uncharted territory. Nobody knows whats going to happen in the news any minute. I think Ive been asking a lot of how we could have prevented this. Am I going to see another depression like my grandfather saw in the 1920s? Over the past few days, New York City has taken a lot of important measures. Im just worried it came a little bit too late. I think Im scared of having to see more death and from reading stories from abroad, having to make decisions about resources. And Im worried people in my life are going to die from it. A few days ago, I had to watch a patient basically slowly die. I just felt helpless. This is the first time Ive really seen people that I truly dont know how to help. And they are coming in so sick that everything Im used to doing to be able to treat them, I cant really do. How was your day off, Mich? It was emotional, to say the least. Why? Its just, like, the hospital has been insane. And every hour, like, things are changing. So its just, like, trying to keep up with that while trying to read about what I should be treating these people with, while people are rolling in the worst  I dont know. They say in 18 days its supposed to get really bad. I guarantee you tomorrow were going to have like 1,000 more. The numbers are going to go up. Thats no problem at all. Thank you very much. Thats very nice. Thank you. Sounds good. See you then. Bye. Well, I have been working. A lot of people are not, which is hard. This place used to have 30 employees, and on Sunday we let go of 90% of the staff. We want to reopen so we can rehire people, you know? It was really hard to let everyone go. These are people that are at the level, theyre not wealthy, you know? This is a very harsh reality. And actually what the job is, is smiling through stress. And this is hard to smile through. [Rain falling] Its go time here at the community kitchen. This is the time where we have to ramp up our services to be very sensitive to how people are feeling. People are coming to us feeling vulnerable. They maybe work in the restaurant industry. People who work in Broadway and in a lot of the behind-the-scenes, theyre coming here saying, well, I dont have work. So those industries are the folks that are the first ones that were seeing come through. But were preparing to see more people come through in need. All programming at the senior center is suspended for the next two weeks. Stay safe and have a good day. So this is not business as usual. We dont know whats coming up if people have to stay in their homes for a longer period of time. And we want to make sure people are getting food, especially since a lot of industries are out of work. We are expecting a lot of new people, and we are going to be ready to receive them. This is all very new for them, and some of them are feeling guilt or shame coming to an emergency food program. So we have to remember that we do this all the time, but for them, its something new and something that they feel anxious about doing. Were just getting them registered. Theyre getting food. Thats our main priority is people are getting food. [Sighing with exasperation] Im not supposed to touch my face. Hold on a second. I have prepared myself already, mentally, multiple times, to go back to Oregon and leave this entire beautiful dream behind me. So many people, including many of my friends, are working at bars, at restaurants, which are now closed. And now were all at home, wondering, Can we make it another month? Can our families afford to pay their mortgages at home? Do we just need to go back and start working, just so we can help our own families, the people that we love the most, stay in the homes that we grew up in? Its hard to think that my mom or my dad are never going to see retirement. The best things that we can do right now as a community is just to give ourselves over to something that brings us true happiness. Because right now, it feels like its about to get very desperate. This is only something that we can get through if were working together. There will be so much suffering, unnecessary suffering, if were not really looking out for each other and if we only think about ourselves and our well-being. We have to be thinking about each other. [Birds chirping]'