Published: 08:27 EST, 26 January 2017 | Updated: 08:30 EST, 26 January 2017Last year Nasa detected an object, that could be a comet or an asteroid, on a path towards Earth.The space agency has said the mysterious object will safely pass Earth at a distance of nearly 32 million miles (51 million kilometres) on February 25th.But one self-proclaimed astronomer has come up with an alternative theory, suggesting the asteroid will crash into Earth on February 16th and trigger a mega-tsunami, according to reports.SHARE PICTURECopy link to paste in your message +2 Last year Nasa detected an object, that could be a comet or an asteroid, on a path towards Earth. One self-proclaimed astronomer has come up with an alternative theory, suggesting the asteroid will crash into Earth and trigger a mega-tsunamiWHAT IS 2016 WF9? The recently-discovered object, called 2016 WF9, has been taking a scenic tour of our solar system, approaching Jupiter's orbit at its greatest distance from the sun. Over the course of 4.9 Earth-years, it has travelled inward, passing under the main asteroid belt and the orbit of Mars until it will swing just inside Earth's own orbit. The object, which is a blurred line between an asteroid and a comet, was discovered by Nasa's NEOWISE mission. 2016 WF9 is relatively large: roughly 0.3 to 0.6 miles (0.5 to 1 kilometre) across. It is quite dark, reflecting only a few per cent of the light that falls on its surface. Its body resembles a comet in its reflectivity and orbit, but appears to lack the characteristic dust and gas cloud that defines a comet. .The strange object, named 2016 WF9, was discovered last year.Over the course of 4.9 Earth-years, it has travelled inward, passing under the main asteroid belt and the orbit of Mars until it will swing just inside Earth's own orbit.The object, which is a blurred line between an asteroid and a comet, was discovered by Nasa's NEOWISE mission.Self-proclaimed Russian astronomer Dr Dyomin Damir Zakharovich said it is heading straight towards our planet.'The object they call WF9 left the Nibiru system in October when Nibiru began spinning counter clockwise around the sun,' he said.'Since then, Nasa has known it will hit Earth. But they are only telling people now.'If the asteroid hit Earth, he says, it could destroy cities or cause a tsunami. 'We are all in peril.'Nasa does not think the object will hit Earth, instead it is saying it will pass nearly 32 million miles (51 million kilometres) away from the planet.'The trajectory of 2016 WF9 is well understood, and the object is not a threat to Earth for the foreseeable future,' says NasaWhat scientists do know is that 2016 WF9 is relatively large: roughly 0.3 to 0.6 miles (0.5 to 1 kilometre) across.It is quite dark, reflecting only a few per cent of the light that falls on its surface.SHARE PICTURECopy link to paste in your message +2 Conspiracy theorists believe the planet Nibiru is set to hit into our planet in October this year, after being driven here by the gravitational pull from a 'binary star' twinned with the sun - of which there is no evidence. Artist's concept of a city after the apocalypseNASA's astroid-hunting NEOWISE discovered 72 near-Earth objects v f Loaded : 0% Progress : 0% w 00:00 A Previous f Play A Skip LIVE d Mute w 00:00 Current Time 0:00 / Duration Time 0:00 t Fullscreen g Need Text Video Quality i k m h n j Foreground --- White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan --- Opaque Semi-Opaque Background --- White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan --- Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Window --- White Black Red Green Blue Yellow Magenta Cyan --- Opaque Semi-Transparent Transparent Font Size 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 300% 400% Text Edge Style None Raised Depressed Uniform Dropshadow Font Family Default Monospace Serif Proportional Serif Monospace Sans-Serif Proportional Sans-Serif Casual Script Small Caps Defaults Done Minimize u Expand t Close × Share this j n l h More m Up next Miranda Kerr lets loose and enjoys a girls night … f Cancel Related videos Miranda Kerr lets loose and enjoys a girls night out 'Sunset on Boulevard!' Miranda Kerr posts video o… How much of a threat are Near-Earth Objects?WHAT IS NIBIRU? Nibiru, sometimes referred to as Planet X, is a hypothesised planet on the edge of our solar system. Nibiru is a different planet to the Planet Nine, which is also sometimes referred to as Planet X, that was proposed by astronomers in Caltech in January last year. Conspiracy theorists believe the gravitational influence of the 'rogue planet' Nibiru disrupted the orbits of other planets hundreds of years ago. They claim the next disruptive passage into the inner solar system could happen at any time. Some claims that this 'planet' is sending 'plasmatic energy particles' through our solar system. The flow of energy will disrupt the 'core flows' of the Earth and trigger catastrophic changes in Earth's climate. They claim, since 1996, we have already been feeling the disruptive effects of the inbound rogue Planet X. Conspiracy theorists often blame natural disasters and freak weather patterns on the planet. 'Nibiru and other stories about wayward planets are an internet hoax,' Nasa has said. 'Obviously, it does not exist.' .Its body resembles a comet in its reflectivity and orbit, but appears to lack the characteristic dust and gas cloud that defines a comet.'2016 WF9 could have cometary origins,' said Deputy Principal Investigator James 'Gerbs' Bauer at JPL.But, according to reports, Dr Zakharovich has said his 'data' reveals a different background.He claims the comet or asteroid originated from the fictional planet Nibiru.'The object they call WF9 left the Nibiru system in October when Nibiru began spinning counter clockwise around the sun,' he said.Conspiracy theorists believe the planet Nibiru is set to hit into our planet in October this year, after being driven here by the gravitational pull from a 'binary star' twinned with the sun - of which there is no evidence.Nibiru, sometimes referred to as Planet X, is a hypothesised planet on the edge of our solar system.'Nibiru and other stories about wayward planets are an internet hoax,' Nasa has said. 'Obviously, it does not exist.'Nibiru is a different planet to the Planet Nine, which is also sometimes referred to as Planet X, that was proposed by astronomers in Caltech in January last year.Conspiracy theorists believe the gravitational influence of the 'rogue planet' Nibiru disrupted the orbits of other planets hundreds of years ago.They claim the next disruptive passage into the inner solar system could happen at any time.The name 'Dyomin Damir Zakharovich' seems to have only appeared online in recent months, relating to doomsday reports regarding the fictional planet Nibiru.