Tiger Woods divorced Swedish model Elin Nordegren in 2010, but he’s only now decided to unload his private island near Stockholm. The Los Angeles Times reports the luxury property has an asking price of $7.1 million.The agency searching for a buyer made no secret of Woods’ motivation to sell. Sabine Rollinger, of Vladi Private Islands, said the property is of little practical use to the golf superstar.“This island was owned by Tiger Woods but after his divorce he doesn’t need an island in Sweden any more.”Nordegren told People in May of 2014 that she and Woods live a 25-minute drive apart in Southern Florida and share custody of their two children, daughter Sam and son Charlie. The children were, at that time, 6 and 5 respectively.“I have moved on and I am in a good place. My relationship with Tiger is centered around our children and we are doing really good — we really are — and I am so happy that is the case. He is a great father.”Nordegren gave the interview to People as she finally received her psychology degree after nine years of chipping away at courses. She graduated with a 3.96 GPA and gave the commencement address at her institution, Rollins College. Her speech made a silent reference to her marriage to Woods.“Education has been the only consistent part of my life the last nine years. And it has offered me comfort. Education is one thing that no one can take away from you.”The island is in Sweden’s Lake Mälaren and boasts a villa, hunting lodge, landing strip, stables, woods, lush parks, and tee-off area. There’s also a unique historical artifact: an 11th-century Viking stronghold. But anyone who buys the property will have to ferry in a couch, since the property is listed as unfurnished.The Boston Herald reports that after Elin and Tiger’s divorce, they sold their home in Windermere, Florida, to another golf star, left-hander Bubba Watson. Woods’ extensive Florida compound is in Hobe Sound, Florida, and Nordegren’s Florida home is in North Palm Beach.Last year, Tiger Woods’ career earnings surpassed the $1.3 billion mark. ESPN quotes a Golf Digest report in stating that 88 percent of those earnings were for endorsements off the green. In 2013, Woods made $12 million playing golf and $71 million in endorsements.After revelations came to light about Woods’ infidelity, his endorsement earnings dropped to an all-time low of $62 million in 2011. He made $100 million in endorsements in each of 2008 and 2009.