We all know that Apple's Spring Forward event on Monday is all about the Apple Watch.Since unveiling the Apple Watch back in September, the Cupertino giant has been focused on teasing the device to the financial, fashion and tech press alike.And as Mashable Chief Correspondent Lance Ulanoff helpfully outlined, we have an idea as to what we can expect to see from the event.But this is Apple. Which means there are always rumors. The Apple Watch event is no different. Along with the main event are rumors about other things Apple could show off or reveal at its big press spectacle.Being the consummate Apple watcher (no pun intended, truly) that I am, I figured it was time to run down the list of rumors, followed by how likely we feel each item is to show up.The gold Apple Watch Edition will cost at least $10,000Image: AppleRumor: The solid gold Apple Watch Edition will cost five figures. And up.When Apple announced the Apple Watch last fall, the only price the company shared was that it will "start" at $349.Most of us have taken that to mean that the Apple Watch Sport will be the version to debut at that price point. The Apple Watch, which has stainless steel rather than aluminum, will be next, followed by the 18 carat gold Apple Watch Edition model.Although there are guesses about what the Apple Watch will cost (we think it'll be starting at $499), the real game has been to guess just how much Apple will sell the Apple Watch Edition for.John Gruber at Daring Fireball initially predicted Apple would sell the Apple Watch Edition for $5,000.He has since gone on to change his prediction, assessing that the fanciest of watches will "start around $10,000."In the gadget world, a $10,000 device seems insane. You could buy a car for that (or at least a tricked-out Mac Pro and 4K display). In the watch world, however, $10,000 for a gold watch actually seems reasonable.If Apple really is going after the luxury watch market — and not just the gadget market — the pricing could make sense.Accuracy Rating: We'll give this an 80% accuracy rating. Gold watches are expensive and if Apple is going to try to sell to the watch aficionado crowd, it should probably be pricing its goods on-par with where they are at.We'll also guess that counterfeit gold Apple Watch Editions will be on the streets of Chinatown in New York City within days of the announcement. They won't work with your iPhone and the gold might make your wrist green, but from afar, you can look special.iOS 8.2Rumor: Apple will launch iOS 8.2 alongside the Apple Watch.This rumor seems pretty solid. The Apple Watch will need a software update and iOS 8.2, which has been seeded to developers for quite some time, will fill that void.Interestingly, Apple is also beta testing iOS 8.3, which brings in some additional features, including new diverse emoji. This leads us to think Apple might launch iOS 8.2 before the Apple Watch officially arrives and iOS 8.3 not long after it ships.Accuracy Rating: We're 100% confident Apple will release iOS 8.2 with or right before the Apple Watch hits stores. We're 90% certain we could see the update hit phones and tablets as early as next week.MacBook updatesRumor: Apple will release updated Broadwell-based MacBook Air and MacBook Pro with Retina notebooks.It's been almost a year since Apple last updated its notebook line. The MacBook Air last got a speed bump at the end of April 2014, with the 13-inch and 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina displays last getting updated at the end of July 2014.Part of the reason it has taken so long for Apple to refresh its notebook line comes down to Intel, whose Broadwell mobile chipset was delayed.Alleged screenshot evidence of new, Broadwell-based MacBook Air machines in 11-inch and 13-inch varieties appeared earlier this week, which only bolsters the idea that Apple will give the Mac a brief shout-out on Monday before going full-force on the Apple Watch.Accuracy Rating: We think it's 90% likely that Apple will update its notebook line on Monday. That said, we expect these updates to be spec bumps only — moving to Broadwell and maybe slightly improved discrete graphics options for the 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina.MacBook Air RedesignRumor: Apple will reveal a brand new, wholly redesigned 12-inch MacBook Air.A recent Wall Street Journal report intimated that the rumored MacBook Air redesign could ship by June.This has led some individuals to think that the new device might share stage time with the Apple Watch at Monday's event.The new MacBook Air will reportedly be fanless, have a retina display and a single USB-C port.Accuracy Rating: Although we think it is highly probably that Apple will release at least one update to its general MacBook Air/MacBook Pro line, we put the likelihood of a brand-new MacBook Air redesign at 30%.We just don't see Apple taking time to move the focus off of the Apple Watch with something as important as a new MacBook Air.It's true that Apple has used major events to show-off Mac redesigns in the past, but this just doesn't feel right. Instead, we expect the new MacBook Air (or whatever it is called) to make its debut in June at WWDC.New Apple TVRumor: Apple will finally update its Apple TV.It's been three years since the third-generation Apple TV was released by Apple. Three years.In that time, not only has the set-top box landscape changed, with strong competition coming not just from Roku but also from Amazon and Google via its hit Chromecast.Moreover, the Apple TV interface is starting to feel stale. Plus the hardware could use a refresh, if only to make AirPlay mirroring even better and to bring something like Continuity and Hand-off to the Apple TV world.But beyond the set-top box world, the OTT revolution is off and running with an increasing number of television viewers turning to over-the-top streaming services for more of their content.Could Apple finally be prepared to release a new Apple TV along with a Sling TV-like service?Accuracy Rating: We think there is a 15% change Apple could release an update Apple TV. Without a doubt the product needs an update, we just don't see it happening now.iPad ProRumor: Apple will release the long-rumored 12-inch iPad Pro.Personally, I have a hard time believing Apple is even planning on releasing a 12-inch iPad. Sure, it's possible that this is a device that its partner IBM might want for the enterprise, but the truth is, tablets of that size tend to become unwieldy.Plus, it seems like Apple releasing an iPad that is trying to be a laptop would be making the same mistake Microsoft made with the Surface and Surface 2. Microsoft finally found success with the Surface Pro 3 by selling it for what it is, a laptop that, in a pinch, could be used as a touch-screen device.Apple has been very clear that it intends to keep iOS and OS X separate.But even if you do believe that an iPad Pro is coming, Bloomberg and the Wall Street Journal are both saying that Apple can't ship the device until fall.Accuracy Rating: 0%. You will not see a new iPad at the Apple Watch event. Period.Your thoughtsWe'd love to hear your thoughts on what Apple will and will not reveal at Monday's event. Be sure to let us know what you think of our predictions in the comments.