Most of us grew up watching Disney cartoons and we continue to love them – both the old and new ones. These animated films tell us about love and friendship, all while making us laugh. But when we watch Disney cartoons as adults, we can’t help noticing some of the things that we didn’t see before. These films gave us innocent laughs as kids, but now, we have questions. Lots of questions. For example, why was Roger Rabbit married to Jessica Rabbit? Why did Esmeralda show us scandalous dance moves? Why did Ursula from The Little Mermaid sing a song about body language to young viewers? Was it all done on purpose or was it accidental? We just can’t pretend like we didn't see these now-obvious things, so we decided to write about them instead. Go ahead and read our list of inappropriate moments Disney that will leave you going, "Wait, our parents let us watch THAT?!"Continue scrolling to keep reading Click the button below to start this article in quick view Share Tweet Email Copy Link Copiedadvertising15 I Guess Size Doesn’t Matter For AnnaFrozen didn’t escape our list of Disney inappropriateness. For example, in one of the scenes, Anna and Kristoff discuss her obsession with Hans. Anna hears for the second time that she can’t marry a man she’s just met (which destroys the stereotypes of all Disney movies). Kristoff asks if she knows Hans well enough to become his wife. At first, he asks Anna what his last name is, to which the girl replies “of the Southern Isles” (apparently Kristoff is right and she has no clue on what kind of person Hans is). Then he asks what Hans’s shoe size is, which is a seemingly innocent question. But we know that shoe size can be related to something more intimate. And, as if confirming our suspicions, Anna replies, “Foot size doesn’t matter.” Wow, things escalated quickly!14 Is This A Bump, Or What?A couple of inappropriate things slipped into the Hercules movie as well. Do you recall the moment when the son of Zeus hits the River Guardian? The horseshoe lands right on his head and it results in a huge bump appearing on top of the poor guy's head. Due to the presence of those two huge eyebrows under this bump, the injury gets a striking resemblance to a male's nether regions. Whether it was done intentionally or not, this bump can't be unseen!And there is one more inappropriate scene in the same cartoon: the dance of muses. The next time you watch this flick, take notice of the skirts that the beautiful women are wearing and how they fly up and show nothing underneath!13 Ursula’s Inappropriate Body LanguageAnother inappropriate thing about The Little Mermaid is Ursula's behavior. Ariel asks this evil sea witch for help since she wants to get legs and join her beloved on land. Ursula agrees and says that the mermaid will have to give up her voice as payment. At first Ariel disagrees to such a deal, but ultimately gives up. Among everything else, the sea witch reminds Ariel of one more thing: body language. She sings a song that is a little too sultry for a Disney film, and the lyrics are a tad inappropriate. She says that men are “not all that impressed with conversation” and that “it's she who holds her tongue who gets a man.” But the epitome of it all is her reminder of “the importance of body language” that is accompanied by unequivocal body movements.advertising12 Are Those Gummies For Kids?As it turns out, Miley Cyrus went bad long before singing "Wrecking Ball" and twerking live. When she was playing Hannah Montana, a number of products with her name appeared in stores for kids. One of those items were these gummies that were designed as, as they put it, “guitar and microphone shapes.” But… the person who created these candies was either a complete pervert or just straight up clueless. The shape of these gummies is far from resembling guitars or mics.Obviously, these candies aren't appropriate for kids. But, on the other hand, they would be appropriate for bachelorette parties. Did it occur to the Disney marketers to create a new package for these gummies and sell them in shops for adults? That would be a better idea, for sure!11 Dumbo’s Unfortunate TripThis is a scene that should have freaked us out while we were watching Dumbo as kids. If you don’t remember what was going on here, we’re here to remind you. Dumbo, our lovely big-eared elephant, drinks champagne-spiked water and gets lit AF. What follows is the scene with his horrific hallucinations. He sees multiple colorful elephants that are dancing strangely. They even (at times) form into a single huge elephant with multiple heads. The most terrifying thing is that all these heads have black lifeless eyes. Yikes! Was there acid or a stronger drug in Dumbo's champagne-laced water?What were they thinking when creating these scenes for children? Did they intend to show that it's bad to get drunk? Isn’t there a less creepy way to do this?advertising10 Donald Duck Was A Nazi?We all remember this funny duck and his fascinating adventures. But do we know everything about him? No, apparently we don’t! In 1942, when World War II was in action, Disney released the cartoon: Der Fuehrer’s Face. It was an animated short film that featured Donald Duck as… a Nazi (a reluctant one, but still)! In the cartoon, Donald Duck has a nightmare in which he is a Nazi who lives in the town where everything has the shape of swastika. He has to arrange food rations for German Fascists and work overtime at the factory that is producing weapons. But in the end, Donald wakes up and demonstrates gratitude for being an American citizen.Der Fuehrer’s Face was an anti-Nazi propaganda. Since it had a highly controversial content, it wasn’t generally released, even though (oddly enough) it received an Academy Award.9 So Many Things About Jessica RabbitThere are quite a few inappropriate things about Jessica Rabbit from Who Framed Roger Rabbit. First of all, why the hell is she, a human, married to a rabbit? Of course, some people say that kids can’t see far into those things, but still – is it okay to show them that a human character is married to an animal character? It probably messed us up in some way that a shrink could probably figure out. It seems kind of far fetched. Why wasn't Jessica Rabbit a rabbit lady (like Roger)? She would still look hot as a rabbit and probably less controversial, too.Now, let’s discuss another major inappropriate thing about Jessica Rabbit. In one of the scenes, she’s thrown out of the car. When she falls down, her dress flies up and everyone sees that she doesn’t wear any underwear under that high-slit dress. How appropriate is this to show lady parts of a character to children?advertising8 Topless Harpies In ‘Fantasia’Fantasia is a 1940 Disney animated movie that had numerous weird imagery. (It must have scared the pants off kid viewers back in the day.) In one of its programs, namely Night on Bald Mountain, we saw a Ukrainian demon, Chernabog. This demon rules all other dark creatures that gather on the Sabbath and is an explicitly horrifying creature. Honestly, it’s hard to even understand why this terrifying demon was added to a children’s cartoon at all. But the inappropriateness doesn’t end there. To make matters worse, his fellow demons—known as 'Harpies'—appear. And we’re dumbfounded to see that all of them are… topless! I understand this was back in the '40s and things were different then, but how on earth is it appropriate to show the perky nipples of female demons to kids?7 Continuation Of The Boob ThemeThe Lion King is one of our favorite Disney movies. It has a ton of good messages for kids, such as the importance of courage and belief in oneself. But it also has some inappropriate hidden messages. You most likely already know about the dust that forms into the word “sex” in the sky, about the shape of a female’s backside on the nose of Simba, and about the seductive gaze Nala gives Simba when they meet as adults. But did you know that there is one more thing in this cartoon that is certainly not for kids? In the scene when Zazu is showing Simba and Nala where the watering hole is, he’s flying past some palm trees and sand dunes. But why would sand dunes have those weird dark spots at the very top? Don’t they look more like nipples? It’s actually the only thing they resemble!advertising6 Highly Inappropriate BackgroundThe Disney’s 1977 animated film, The Rescuers, is a sweet story about two mice from the Rescue Aid Society that are rescuing a little girl kidnapped by treasure hunters. Despite how neat and kosher it sounds, there are inappropriate additions as well. Do you notice anything strange in the scene when Bernard and Bianca are flying through the city in their sardine can? If you don’t, let us point it out to you: there is a topless woman standing in the window in the background!Interestingly enough, Disney has been trying to make excuses, saying that the image was added some time after post production of the movie. But does it really matter when it happened? It's still in the final product!5 What A Beautiful Castle! Wait, What?Look at this marvelous castle that belongs to King Triton. It’s very beautiful and extravagant, isn’t it? In fact, it's pretty much flawless. But if we zoom in a little closer, we see a glittery male, ahem, organ! Some people say we're crazy and it's just a column. But there are a few rumors circling around this supposed column. One of them suggests that the illustrator who created this poster was in a hurry and didn’t notice that he had drawn something inappropriate for a children's cartoon. Another rumor suggests that this illustrator was going to quit his job and drew the image on purpose out of spite. We still don’t know which story is true and we doubt we'll ever know. Regardless of what we think though, there is a column on the cover of The Little Mermaid that looks like a penis... Damn...4 If You Know What I Mean...Here is another example of a line in a kids movie that you probably didn't think twice about. Until now, that is! This line definitely flew over kids' heads but adults were shocked after hearing it. When Aladdin and Jasmine were getting married in Aladdin and the King of Thieves, an unusual earthquake suddenly began. While everything was rambling, Genie cried out that he thought that “the Earth wasn’t supposed to move until the honeymoon.” When you were a kid, you probably didn’t notice the sexual reference here -- it was just a funny line. But being an adult now, you know that the first night as husband and wife is usually accompanied by not getting too much time to sleep... If you know what we mean.3 Too Small Of A TentIn The Emperor's New Groove, there was a character named Kronk (a big, kind-hearted man who was assisting the main antagonist). In one of the scenes, Kronk is peacefully sleeping while holding a stuffed teddy bear in his hands. But it's not the adult sleeping with a stuffed bear that we're going to talk about when we say "inappropriate" here. It's Kronk's tent. When we see the tent, a question comes to mind immediately: why is it so small? Whether Kronk took a tiny tent accidentally or on purpose, the way he uses it to sleep is rather awkward. Wouldn't it be more logical to place the tent above his head? Or is he hiding something else down there? Maybe it's some morning wood or something of that nature? #Gross.2 Chel, What Are You Doing?The Road to El Dorado is a 2000 animated movie about two guys, Tulio and Miguel, who come all the way from being street tricksters to becoming Gods for the inhabitants of El Dorado. At some point, they meet Chel, a curvaceous funny girl. We don’t know who the animator was who created this character, but we're sure that Chel turned out to be one of the sexiest cartoon characters we've ever seen. Many of her moves and words seem slightly inappropriate for a children’s film. But the most questionable scene appears when she and Tulio get interrupted in the middle of something that doesn't seem safe for Disney. We don’t even wanna know what they were doing there (though we can guess). What we want to know is whether this unambiguous scene was added on purpose or if it just looks worse than it actually is.1 Esmeralda’s Nude DancingIt still remains a mystery to us as to why Disney decided to make a cartoon for kids out of The Hunchback of Notre Dame. After all, the original story is so tragic. Multiple topics touched in the story seem a little dark for kids. There's adultery, betrayal, lust, and death (just to name a few). One way or another, the people at Disney managed to make it into a cartoon, but some strange things remained. For example, do you remember Esmeralda's "dance of desire"? Or rather, the dance that creeper Frollo imagines her to be doing. At some point during the dance, her beautiful curvaceous body turns into flames (for effect), and at certain moments, we could see that she... was completely naked. Was the scene added specifically so adults would enjoy the film as well, or did the artists not think about how scandalous this would be back in the '90s?