b'All other Covid-19 deaths in the U.S.\n\nAt least 28,100 residents and workers have died from the coronavirus at nursing homes and other long-term care facilities for older adults in the United States, according to a New York Times database. The virus so far has infected more than 153,000 at some 7,700 facilities.\n\nLong-term care facilities with at least one coronavirus case States that provide some facility data States that provide no facility data\n\nNursing home populations are at a high risk of being infected by  and dying from  the coronavirus, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, is known to be particularly lethal to older adults with underlying health conditions, and can spread more easily through congregate facilities, where many people live in a confined environment and workers move from room to room.\n\nWhile just 11 percent of the countrys cases have occurred in long-term care facilities, deaths related to Covid-19 in these facilities account for more than a third of the countrys pandemic fatalities.\n\nA third of U.S. coronavirus deaths are linked to long-term care facilities. Cases in long-term care facilities All other U.S. cases 11% Deaths in long-term care facilities All other U.S. deaths 35%\n\nIn the absence of comprehensive data from some states and the federal government, The Times has been assembling its own database of coronavirus cases and deaths at long-term care facilities for older adults. These include nursing homes, assisted-living facilities, memory care facilities, retirement and senior communities and rehabilitation facilities.\n\nSome states, including Colorado, Illinois, Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey and South Carolina, regularly release cumulative data on cases and deaths at specific facilities. California, Massachusetts, Michigan and Ohio, among others, provide some details on the number of cases  but not on deaths. Others report aggregate totals for their state but provide no information on where the infections or deaths have occurred. About a dozen report very little or nothing at all.\n\nThe share of deaths tied to long-term care facilities for older adults is even more stark at the state level. In 14 states, the number of residents and workers who have died accounts for more than half of all deaths from the virus.\n\nThe Timess numbers are based on official confirmations from states, counties and the facilities themselves. They include residents and, in cases where reporting is available, employees of the facilities. Given the wide variability in the type of information available, the totals shown here almost certainly represent an undercount of the true toll.\n\nCases and deaths in long-term care facilities, by state State reporting comprehensive aggregate data Note: In New York, the case count is the same as the death count because the state only reports the number of people who have died but not the number of overall infections.\n\nBased on The Timess analysis, some 850 of the countrys 3,100 counties have at least one coronavirus case related to a long-term care facility for older adults.\n\nHover overTap on each county to see the number of coronavirus cases at long-term care facilities, as well as the total number of cases in that county.\n\nCases in long-term care facilities in each county No cases 50 100 500 Note: Not all states report facility-level data.\n\nThe New York Times is tracking the coronavirus at nursing homes and long-term care centers. Do you or a family member live or work in one of these facilities? If so, wed like to hear from you.\n\nHere is a list of cases and deaths at long-term care facilities that have had at least 50 cases. We update the numbers as we are able to confirm them with state, county and facility officials.\n\nCases and deaths, by facility\n\nNote: States frequently revise numbers down to correct errors and fix other problems.'