PROCEEDINGS OF THE SECOND IMPERIAL KLONVOKATION HELD IN KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI Sept. Z3> 24, 15 and 2.6, 1924 KNIGHTS OF THE KU KLUX KLAN MCORPOaATED TABLE OF CONTENTS Pag: I ginning of First Day's Session, September 13, 1914 9 < kx ning Prayer and Devotional Address 9 By Klansman Sam H. Campbell. jiddress of Welcome on behalf of Kansas City * 6 Actress of Welcome on Behalf of the Klansmen of Missouri 18 By Klansman George C McCarron, Grand Dragon. \ in. neanism Applied • ■ • ■ ■ 10 An Inspirational Address by Klansman Clifford Walter, Governor of Georgia. \ mcrica at the Cross-Roads 3° An Inspirational Address by a Distinguished Klansman. Program of the Klonvokation - ■ ■ ■ 4 1 nning of the Second Day's Session, September 24, 1914 44 persi >nnel of the Various Committees. 5° 1 hi Kkin of Yesterday and of Today. . . . . ■ 34 An Address by the Imperial Wizard, Dr. H. W. Evans. 1 • I ■ ni mental Report. ■ 5 By the Imperial Wizard, Dr. II. W. Evans. U 1 1 .01 ( of the Legal Department 93 By the Imperial Klomel, Paul 5*. Etkmdgt. ,,rt of the Committee on the Imperial Klonsel's Report 98 1 ,| 1 of the imperial Kligrapp ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ TO ° liy Klansman H. K. Ramsey. Uporc oJ Che < lommittee on the Imperial Kligrapp's Report 105 ^itinninffoi ch< Third Day' 8 Session, September 15, 1914.. • toy Page Report of the Women of the Ku Klux Klan • ■ - lJO By Klansman]. A. Comer. Report of the Committee on the Women of the Ku Klux'Klan... . 114 American Women An Inspirational Address by Miss Robbie Gill, Imperial Commander of the Women of the Ku Klux Klan. Report of the Insurance Department ■ • r 3° By Klansman Z. E. Marvin. Report of the Committee on the Insurance Department 135 Let the Fiery Cross Be'Burning *3 6 Adopted as the Khnvokation Song, Composed by Judge Henry A. Grady, of North Carolina. I The Klan of Tomorrow - • ! ■ ■ i 4° An Inspirational Address by Dr. H. W. Evans, Imperial Wizard. The Klan Spiritual. ■ ■ ■ ■ J 55 An Inspirational Address by Dr. H. W. Evans, Imperial Wizard. m Report of the Finance*Committee r 73 By Klansman Ralph H. Cameron, Chairman. Beginning'of Fourth Day' session 'September 16, 1924 195 Report of th/lmperial Klabee ■ z 99 By Klansman Sam H. V enable. Reporrof the'Committee'on thejtmperial Klabee's Address 200 Report, of the" Accounting Department. . . . , - 101 By Klansman N. N. Furney, Cashier. Report of the'CommitteeWthe Cashier's Address 203 1 Report of the Imperial Klazik 10 4 By Klansman Brown Harivsod. Report of thc'Committcc on*th< Emperial [Clazik's Addrcs; ... ^07 Pace |i port of the National Lecture Bureau 208 J By Klansman Albert E. Hill, Director. j Lpi irt of the Committee on the National Lecture Bureau 2.10 1 1 j )i >rt of the Industrial Plants X11 Bj &ansman T. J. McKinnon, Manager. 1 1 j ii >ri of the Junior Ku Klux Klan 2 - I 3 By Klansman Paul A. Foock, National Director. V. , 1 11 irt of the Committee on the Junior Ku Klux Klan 2.17 1 pi .11 of the Extension Department. ilS By Klansman N. N. Furney. K M h .1 1 of the Committee on the Extension Department 2.21 \ Holy Crusade. * x ^ An Inspirational Address by Dr. H. XV. Evans, Imperial Wizard. riii Reformation a Reality ^37 An Inspirational Address by a Distinguished Klansman. \ FOREWORD /T was announced at Kansas City that tin entire proceedings of the Klonvokation would be sent to the Klansmen of the nation within a few days. That announcement was un- fortunate, for the reason that no publication of dimensions can be properly executed within so brief a period. Moreover, the new office now being opened in Kansas City has, since the Klonvokation, absorbed much of your Kligrapfs time. The Kknvokation, from beginning to end, was enthusiastic, livery pointed utterance was received with hearty applause. However, applause in print — especially in pointed argumenta- tive or impassioned address— has a tendency to diminish, rather than to enhance, the reader s interest, Hence the applause noted by the stenographers, in reporting the principal messages, has been eliminated, H. K. RAMSEY, Imperial Kligrapp. PROCEEDINGS OF' THE* SECOND IMPERIAL KLONVOKATION KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI SEPTEMBER 23rd, 1924 AFTERNOON SESSION Klansman Gail S< Carter. "We will all stand and sing America. After the singing of America, the Imperial Wizard and his Kloncilium will tome down the center aisle. You will all stand, with the sign n cting, as he enters with his Kloncilium— in silence, please." hnericaC) I The Imperial Wizard and his Kloncilium enter the hall?) klausman Gail S. Carter. "Please stand, and we will sing On- ( . hristian So Idiers I On ward Christian Soldiers.*) I lansman Carter. "We will remain standing while Klansman Sam I impbell leads us in prayer." I lansman Sam Campbell. "Oh, God, our Heavenly Father, we i . i ma- that we can call Thee Father, and we realize that the very name |.|< nds for us as we come to the Mercy Seat, because it is the joy and |.|. imurc and privilege of a father to provide for his children. We I Thee, our Heavenly Father, that Jesus Christ taught us this r< lationship we have with Thee. We recall how our earthly hthcrs cared for us in childhood; how they prayed for our welfare; in the stillness of the night, when we were awakened by a | .< luful dream and would cry out in terror and father's hand would I nd upon us and calm us and bring us peace and sleep again. We I .11 how our earthly fathers planned a home for us, a place where Id abide and enjoy that sweet relationship. Oh God, our we realize our needs as we come to Thee today. We pray for I i. ■ l)i\ inc Spirit to brood over us and give unto us a conscienceness I 1 1 1 v Divine presence as we meet here in this Klonvokation. We . i, m.i rhec, our 1 [eavenly Father, for the blessings of the past. We I I In c for the victory Thou hast given to us, thus far. We be- lli al Thou hast been leading us throughout the nation, and we i, , ■ . U j veri to Thee the praise and the glory. (t We thank Thee, our Heavenly Father, for our Imperial Wizard; we love him for his work's sake; a ad we have followed him through the months with our prayers. We have asked God to guide him that he might walk with Jesus Christ, as the two walked with Him on the way to Emmaus, when their hearts burned within them; and, our Father, we have prayed that the Klansmen of the nation might follow him as he walks with Jesus. Oh God, we pray for every blessing upon him. We ask that Thou wilt enable him to feel Thy Divine presence, and that each of us may realize that as we follow him in his leader- ship God is directing us in all our ways. We pray for Thy blessings upon his official family, that each member may be consecrated to God and to His service. We pray that the one passion in every soul may be that God shall be honored in this great movement, and that Jesus Christ may be crowned King of kings and Lord of lords in every heart and in every life. Oh, God, we pray, in the opening of this Klonvokation, that Thou wilt brood over us and make us to be silent in Thy presence, and that each man here may strip himself of every selfish ambition, every desire except the one desire to do the will of God throughout this Klonvokation. Oh, God, lead us, we pray Thee. "And now, as we wait in Thy presence, we turn the listening ear and soul toward Heaven and humbly ask God to speak to us. Lord, speak to us as Thou didst speak to the Disciples in the upper chamber at Jerusalem. Give us the message Thou wouldst have us deliver to the nation, and through the nation to the world. Oh, God, save America, and through America save the world. Our Father, we pray now that Thou wilt make each of us to realize Thy presence and Thy blessings; and in every committee to be appointed and in all the work to be attempted, wilt Thou guide and direct and give us the victory in this Klonvokation and throughout life. We ask it all in Jesus' name, and for His sake, Amen." Klansman Campbell continued: "I have been requested to conduct the devotional exercises, and one request made of me is that I read the twelfth chapter of Romans. I am going to read from a new version, because I believe it gives to us a clearer meaning and new light upon this great chapter that will bring us closer to God. I am going to read from Weymouth's translation: i. I plead with you therefore, brethren, by the compassion of God, to present all your faculties to Him as a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to Him. This with you will be an act of reasonable worship. x. And do not follow the customs of the present age, but be transformed by the entire renewal of your minds, so that you may learn by experience what Clod's will tl that will wliitli \i ijoml ;tn<! In ;m! Hul .nnl (»r h i I . [| - |. For through the authority graciously given to me I warn every individual among Ly not to value himself unduly, but to cultivate sobriety of judgment in accordance b the amount of faith which God has allowed to each one. 4. For just as there are in the one human body many parts, and these parts have not till the same function, So collectively we form one body in Christ, while individually wc are linked to mother as its members. i, But since we have special gifts which differ in accordance with the diversified work omly entrusted to us, if it is prophecy, let the prophet speak in exact proportion to lith. 7 If it is the gift of administration let the administrator exercise a sound judgment li duties. H The teacher must do the same in his teaching; and he who exhorts others, in his I J [ation. He who gives should be liberal; he who is in authority should be energetic I ,!, rt ; and he who succors the afflicted should do it cheerfully. 9 Let your love be perfectly sincere. Regard with horror what is evil; cling to what | .irdil. 19, As for brotherly love, be affectionate to one another; in matters of worldly 1 „ . yield to one another. * Do not be indolent when zeal is required. 1 1 . Be thoroughly warm-hearted, The Lord's own servants, full of joyful hope, patient under persecution, earnest ind persistent in prayer. , .,. Relieve the necessities of God's people; always practice hospitality. I 4, Invoke blessings on your persecutors— blessings, not curses. i V Rejoice with those who rejoice; weep with those who weep. rf Have full sympathy with one another. Do not give your mind to high things, 1 , humble ways content you. Do not be wise in your own conceits. 1 I have read only a part of this matchless chapter for the reason . I, ,1 I have been asked to conduct a brief devotional service. I desire to for only a few minutes upon the Cross in Klankr aft— what it ns to me, or the significance of the Fiery Cross. There is one thing, only one thing in all Klandom, that symbolizes sacrifice; it is , | |( ] (< , y Cross— the Cross which in ancient times was the instrument uf torture and the symbol of ignominy and shame, which when touched I chi fingers of the Klansman 's Criterion of Character was transformed , a symbol of light and life and salvation. My brethren, I never m I n a Klavern and stand before a prepared altar where the Fiery I ... • looks clown upon me, its Holy Light blazing forth all the sacred I uljtions of the past, nor behold the blazing symbol mounting the lummil oi a hill or a mountain peak, nor behold it as it gives light 1, feci of K lansmen in parades through the streets of a great city, 1 do not wish that I myself and every Klansman in the nation Id cry with the Apostle Paul: 'I am crucified with Christ; never- .1,, 1, 1 i,,. ; V ri 001 I bui Christ livcth in me; and the life which I 1 1 now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.' To my mind this is the greatest utter- ance that ever fell from mortal lips. It emanated from the mind of the greatest scholar, the greatest intellectual giant that ever called phil- osophers and theologians to delve into the hidden mind to reveal truth that they might understand God's program for mankind. It came warm from the heart and hot from the lips of the most marvelous character, save the Master, that ever stamped his personality upon a guilty world. It came welling up from the soul of the mightiest preacher of righteousness that ever called the guilty people to their knees in penitence before God or ever published the unsearchable riches of Jesus Christ until men everywhere have heard of Him, whom to know is life eternal. It came warm from the heart of a man who lingered long upon Calvary, bathing in the shadow of the Cross — breathing in its mystery, "I would that every Klansman in the nation could behold that Cross as Paul beheld it, and cry with him: 'God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world.' If every Klansman in the nation could say that with Paul, America would be safe for Amer- icans from this day to the end of time. ' 'That uplifted Fiery Cross calls me to a life of consecration to Christ and country and Klan, because of what Christ is to me. Jesus Chtist, our Criterion of character, means little or nothing to vast mul- titudes of men. The glory of His life and the deity of His person are not seen by all the multiplied millions of men; but those of us who have felt the sting and the stain and the blot and the bite and the bitterness of sin have come to Him for cleansing, and have found it. Yea, those of us who have been snatched from the hand of eternal burning by the hand that gives life, and gives it more abundantly, feel that we should exclaim with Paul: 'God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of Christ!' "Brethren, I see in Jesus my individual sacrifice for sin, when He stretched Himself upon that cruel Cross and the nails were driven in His hands and feet, and He cried: 'Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.' I was in His mind and heart that day, as much as if there were no other souls in all the world. And when He expired saying, Tt is finished/ He had me in His mind and heart, for He was my personal sacrifice for sin. "Some years ago, a minister of the gospel, traveling through West- ern Missouri, stopped at a farm house. After the meal, he was invited bv the head of the house to come into a room for the i vening devoi ion. i i. observed that the chairs were arranged in a semi-circle, and that ,i hi i le girl of perhaps eleven years sat beside her father — holding his I, mi. I. The door opened and a beautiful girl of seventeen or eighteen i.n crs entered. She, too, sat down by the father, who immediately | id a chapter of Holy Writ and then led the little company in fervent 1 .1 iycr. Some weeks later the minister passed that way again and came itpuit the little country church, the grove of which was hlled with horses and buggies. He entered and beheld the minister speaking 1S a black casket to the grief-stricken audience. When per- mission was given for the people to look for the last time upon the In. .,( their departed fellow-citizen, the beautiful young girl arose I went softly and reverently to the casket. She endeavored to pick up i he hand that was stiff and cold in death, but could not. She then Mtltly removed the glove and kissed that scarred hand again and I tin and wailed out her soul. ( Oh, this hand, this hand,* she cried, i.- I love it, how I love it, the hand that was mangled to save iin how I love itV "K kinsmen, with eyes of faith, may we, this afternoon, behold an- i hand — the hand that was mangled on Calvary's Cross for you I for me. And may we each exclaim in our hearts: 'How I love n how I love it!' Jesus paid our debt, and now we are free— He LI i hat we might live. 'Jesus is not only our great sacrifice, but He is the individual n iv in Heaven for every one who accepts Him as Savior. Each stands before the Court of High Heaven, before God and the tnjl Is, and we are guilty, every man of us, of high treason against thi I ing of kings and Lord of lords— and the penalty of our crime || death. My brothers, there is only one lawyer admitted to the bar i I >t vine Justice, only one who understands Divine Love. If you not committed your case into His hands, woe unto you! If ■ u have retained Him, He stands before the Court, pleads His own n i id. r as full satisfaction of the Law's demands and prays that you I freed. He has paid it all. "I feci that I should consecrate my life to Him, to the Klan, to \in« i u .i and to all mankind— because He sacrificed Himself for me. ii us nie to be a witness for Him, a witness to His saving grace ►wcr. He wants me to be a co-worker with Him for the redemp- >l the world . i MiMiuii, ttiy time has nearly expired. However, in conclusion, K CO -iv that (lie uplifted Fiery Cross comforts the souls of all I,., ri V< N nil\ look upon it; and it enables them the better to do ill. it purl hi redeeming America and making it the Light House oi the world — it makes them more loyal and zealous in serving and sacrificing for the right. Keeping step with the Master and daily striving to emulate His example — this is the sacrifice, if sacrifice it may be called, which Klansmen offer that America and the world may be saved. Are you ready to lay all your consecrated power of manhood on the altar this afternoon as a token of love and gratitude to Him, and to say; 4 By the help of Almighty God, I determine that from this hour on I will so live that I can hand down to future generations the standard of what a real American ought to be; that I will seek to make America the first of all the nations to fulfill the will of God and to crown Jesus Lord of all?' "Von Winkelried made an opening in the Austrian lines by rush- ing forward and embracing all the spears he could encirle with his arms and turning them into his own breast, until they bore him to the ground — thus opening the way for his comrades to rush forward to victory. Are you, my fellow Klansmen, willing to say that, if necessary, aT the darts of the enemies of America may pierce your hearts? I can say that, if necessary, the spears of our country's foes shall bury their sharp points in the heart of one son of America, that America mav be saved and that through America the world may be saved, Cf I imagine some one is saying: 'Preacher, there is so little that I can do — so little influence that I can exert.' Listen, Klansmen, we are going to accomplish this task in America when every man of us does his part— then, and not until then. 'An illustration, just here, to enforce the truth I am trying to rivet in your minds and hearts. Some years ago, at a summer resort, in a large hotel, which had an immense room used for dancing and at times for the orchestra to entertain the people as they sat about, a little girl sat down at the piano and began playing a tune, the only one she knew — 'Go Tell Aunt Bettie the Old Gray Goose Is Dead/ She played it with just two fingers, and kept on playing it until it got on the nerves of the people. They endeavored in every possible way to induce her to cease playing, but she continued thumping: 4 Go Tell Aunt Bettie the Old Gray Goose Is Dead,' A great musician strolled in, and said to the child: Tittle Miss, suppose you and I play a duet. You play down there, and I will play up here.' As his skilled fingers swept the keys, he let out of his heart a mighty compo- sition; the music rolled through the hotel and out to the veranda, and the people listened — sucfc richness of sound they had never be- fore heard. They entered the room, and listened with breathless silence until the music ceased. Turning i<> the audience, the musician 'Ladies and gentlemen, permit me to introduce the little Miss has furnished the entertainment.' Klansmen, you and I may play imperfectly upon the harp of What we send forth may be nothing but discords— like those mI nounding brass and tinkling cymbals. However, if we play our to the glory of God, the Great Musician will fill in the music • innot produce; the music from our harps will sweep through the -H i idors of Heaven, and it will entertain and uplift America and the mil And, by and by, we will stand before the arch-angels, intro- i I .is the Klansmen who furnished the music that attracted the i. in ion of America and made America safe for Americans and the i of civilization. "I wonder how many men hete this afternoon are willing to put -I your hearts every selfish thought, every unholy ambition, 1 1 1. 1 10 empty yourselves that God may come in and speak to you. « ill who desire this blessing stand for a few moments in silent i , then I will briefly close the prayer. Do you want to do this Do you want to be remembered before the Throne of Grace? ■ vou want to say: 'Let God have His way in this Klonvokation, >i.l I. i ( rod be praised?' I bi audience stood for prayer.^) < )ur Father, Thou knowst that we desire to honor Thee. We i Inn this may be the greatest convention that has ever been held .1. \m. rica, different from anything that the people of the nation . vi r heard of or witnessed. May every man seek to have God I Ins eyes in whatever is said and done throughout the sessions [his klonvokation. Speak to us now, our Father. Bless us in n hearts and in our own lives and glorify Thyself in and through tsk it in Jesus' name and for His sake, Amen." Wansman Carter. "The next selection will be from the Wichita . i. which wall be followed by the Junction City Quartet (In Hudson Quartet, after which the band and the audience I ked to join in the song which you will know by that time. It I h< little card which is passed out." "HOW DO YOU DO" How do you do— Hello, Hiram — How do you do How do you do— Hello Hiram— How are you? Slap your hand right into mine i h c! hut ain't you looking fine wV'iv lii'jn behind you right in line I low .Id \ mi ilo How <!<> \ mii do Hello, Hiram— How do you do? I Klansman Carter, Klansman ; 'The next will be an address of welcome by — , of Kansas City, Missouri." Klansman . "Mr. Chairman, Imperial Wizard, Officers of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan and Gentlemen of this Kfonvo- kation: I have been asked to address you \ extending a welcome on behalf of Kansas City. I suspect that you think it a rather inconsistent attitude for me to take if you have been reading our daily press; but , gentlemen, I do not edit the newspapers of Kansas City. Were I to do so j I am sure that they would be in sympathy with Klan- kraft. ■ But since it seems to be the will of those who have charge of this Klonvokation that I must thus persecute you, I shall proceed to do it. "Now, that is my business here today; but I want you to feel that I consider this one of the greatest pleasures I have experienced in my life. It is because I love Klankraft, and in my short address to you I want to talk to you not only as a man who welcomes you to the fair city on the Kaw, but as a man who is waging common warfare in behalf of the very things for which you stand. As we look back over the last six, seven, eight or nine months, we are constrained to feel that you as the representatives of this great body of men have much for which to be thankful. In the first place, men, the things that you have done in the last few months have made safe for Earl B. Mayfield the Senate of the United States. Also, you have made possible the fact that Hiram Wesley Evans, the Executive of this great body that is running into millions, is the most powerful man before the bar of public opinion in America today. And the best part of it is, men, this great Executive of Klanktaft is a God-fearing, honest, American citizen. And, speaking for him, he is proud to say that you men, the representatives of this great body, are God-fearing, honest citizens in the great political life of America today. "I am pleased to welcome you men to Kansas City, representatives of this great body of men running into millions, whose ideals are known at the high dome of Heaven and whose lives are consecrated to live and die for the re-baptism of the Protestant faith that you might thereby make safe our national life. For this, men, you have] no apologies to make, and for this you will permit no man to apolo- gize for you. What a change the last few months have been in the old order of things! I can remember just a few months distant when we were read out, figuratively and actually speaking, of the national life of America. Why, it was only yesterday that an attempt was made to read us out of the Democratic party; and alter that attemm was made, the people thai represented thai greai political body in our 1 1 , ( j I life were crucifying the Klan on the altar of hope— but since Maine election, what a dreadful silence comes from the The politicians controlled, or they appeared to control, underfill political body of men who have made history for | , ., . It reminds me of the little boy who had hold of the electric I. ..... \ . and he could not drop it. It also reminds me of the story I icll you— and those of you who have heard me tell it before will i. . ■ pardon my repeating it. Little Georgie McCarron— some of you him. We call him 'Handsome George.' George loves to iJ so do I. We have experienced that wonderful delight in i . jgether. One time, while out in the Rockies hunting, look- up on the mountain side (we had been unable for several | to obtain cream for coffee), George said: , I can not drln I i ui Fee any longer unless I get some cream, and what am I going About that time, to our surprise, there was a little rustle on 1 1., mountain side, and here stepped forward a Bossey cow. George " I have got it now.' He got a little tin pail, sat down on a stone a tmenced milking. About that time, the cow hit him with lil and he said: 'Dog gone you.' She hit him again with her mil he said: 'Confound you.' In a little while, she nit him u ! he said: 1 will fix you this time.' He took Bossey. I tail and tied it around his neck, and said: 'Now, I bet I will mi. ' At that time, an old bear came shambling along, the cow i imnp down the mountain side, and George after her! When i had descended the mountain side, George untied the tail and ...I 'Why haven't I thought of this before?' That reminds me of (hi politicians who have tried to crucify the Klan, and in their mpi they say: 'Now, why haven't we thought of it before?' in, Kansas City is glad to welcome you. The latch strings of | |t< cs and doors in our city are hanging outside— ready that you h m our hospitality. W. hope that, as a result of your visit to our fair city, you will i iin to love the things for which Kansas City really and properly ilso that you will get an inspiration which will cause what- ... you ilo here to be in behalf of a righteous cause. I hope, and I 1 1,,, i in this Second Klonvokation of the Knights of the M I In n K Ian, the history you write will be epoch-making and that it ■ ■ll.-nnK ih. generations to come. Again I welcome you." (Applause.) i Mn Carter. "The next speaker will be George C. McCarron, , i - ity, who will deliver a welcome on behalf of the Klansmen I i, .11 1 Klansman McCarron. "Mr. Chairman, Your Lordship and Fellow Klansmen: It Is with some embarrassment that I undertake to dis- charge the duty devolving upon me as a representative of the Klans- men of this great State, the State of Missouri. Nevertheless, I would not shirk the responsibility. I know that no words nor eloquence could express the delight and pleasure, not only of myself, but also of thousands of my fellow Klansmen, in welcoming and greeting so splendid a body of men— gathered here from all sections of our great nation. We know you have come with noble purposes and high aims, bent upon a real service in giving due consideration to the grave and important affairs appertaining to the best interest of our home- land and our Order. The preservation and maintenance of the splen- did heritage that is ours is worthy of our best thought and effort. It is ours by the unselfish services and sacrifices of those splendid and courageous men and women of the past, who thought and acted, not in terms of 'self,' but 'others,' making possible a nation of Free- men—a nation dedicated to the service of humanity, and thereby making possible the greatest civilization of all countries and all time. To maintain it, to preserve it, is the supreme duty of every loyal Citizen, true American and true Klansman; and God forbid that we should forget the price that was paid— in hardship, service and sacrifice— that we might be the beneficiaries of so rich a blessing. Your purpose justifies this gathering, and your presence indicates your interest in the great cause represented by our noble Order— the Knights bf the Ku Klux Klan. ; "You are meeting on historic ground, at what was once the gate- way to the West— then big with prophecy, but now even greater, for the present is only the childhood of progress and achievement. "Historically/ the importance of Kansas City cannot be over- estimated or overstated. Within the life of men still living, this point was the place to which all roads from the New England, Middle Atlantic and Southern States led. And from this point radiated to the great Northwest, West and Southwest those trails over which the sturdy and indomitable pioneers of our own generation wended their fearless way, facing the dangers and enduring the hardships that they might conquer the wilderness and plains country, that they might establish and build that civilization common to our nation— m behalf of humanity. This story has been immortalized in prose, verse and song; but from the gigantic services and sacrifices comes a splen ; did fruition, back to this point to be distributed to all sections of our country— those things essential to the maintaining and pre- serving of a great population undreamed of by those heroic frontiers- men. "This gtv:n unsettled and unexplored region, a few short years .... has become the happy homes of millions upon millions of Amen- st manhood and womanhood; and It has made its contribution (1 only to the physical necessities of our teeming population, but ., the mental and spiritual side of our national life, so that no ■n affecting, in any way, the building of our glorious civiliza- ,, be understood and grasped apart from this historic center. in- almost the central position between the Atlantic and , i the Gulf and Canada, it becomes the very center of all that i . I would ask you what more appropriate place could have hoscn -in all our broad land for the Second Imperial Klonvoka- I the Ku Klux Klan, dedicated and consecrated, as the Klan is, preservation of our Government and American civilization, With iLs splendid ideals, principles and institutions? To uphold the noblest work of a patriotic citizenship. Well has Tolstoy ■Only those nations can have a future, only those nations are i} nf the name Historic, which feel the importance and value ii institutions, and prize them.' . ith confidence in your character, and faith in your integrity Mil purpose, on behalf of hundreds of thousands of Klansmen, not ,| Missouri, but of the Middle West, we extend you our hand i gl we bid you make yourselves at home, carry on in your work and do those things that shall be for the good of our country, our Klan and posterity— to the end that our chil- mil our children's children may enjoy the blessings of liberty been ours. We entertain no doubts, and anticipate no We cannot fail, we must succeed. With God as our witness ,1 thi living Christ as our Criterion of Character, and service as our ,1, we extend to you our most hearty greetings, and wel- , .mi m Kansas City." (Applause.) urn Carter, "The next will be a song, Stars and Strips, to pluycil by the Klonvokation band from McPherson, during which n hi w 1 1 1 be permitted to stand and rest for just a moment or two . ' ' played by hand?) ■,» Carter. "It has been reported that there are several i i hi gallery who are making notes regarding the speeches, ikers- putting down the names of the men who are , I ,vu v Klansman in this room is charged with the response | ,,11 ccping 1 hese proceedings secret, and to protect the names of ik< rs, Official notes are being taken, and you are therefore I ui rcfi ain. II, ' p is Governor Walker, of Georgia, who will deliver • rcS pons< to the gentleman who delivered the address of ilfol Kansas City, Klansman ---/'(Applause.) AMERICANISM APPLIED By Governor Clifford Walker of Georgia "Mr Chairman, and Klansrnen: We accept the evidences of the hospitality of this wonderful city and this great State in the same spirit in which it is tendered to us. Its importance Is magnified by reason of the cause which brings us here. My contribution to this evening s exercises will be a reminder that in the years of the recent past a new I aristocracy has been born-the aristocracy of service, service of our fellow men. In the days of our boyhood, we were told of an aristocracy of class, an aristocracy of wealth, an aristocracy of society. In these later years, this new aristocracy has been born . It has found expression in a series of new luncheon clubs, the Rotary, the Kiwams, the Civitan and others, whose motto, in different language, yet the same in sub- stance, is 'We serve, we build/ "I suggest that the old orders, secret societies— the Masons, the Odd Fellows, Knights of Pythias, and others— must take into account, if they would prosper and be perpetuated, this new aristocracy that was written in the very mud sills of the foundation of the Uni- verse itself; the aristocracy that was articulated by that Master Ser- vant, that Prince of Peace, when He said: 'If any man would be first among you, let him be the last of all, and the servant of all. 'It is the spirit, expressed in the words of the poet An old man traveling a lone highway, Came at evening, cold and gray, To a chasm deep and wide ; The old man crossed in the twilight dim, The sullen stream held no fear for him, But he turned when he reached the other side, And builded a bridge to span the tide. Old Man,' cried a fellow pilgrim near, 'You are wasting your strength with your building here. You never again will pass this way, Your journey will end with the ending day. You have crossed the chasm deep and wide, Why build this bridge ar eventide?' But the builder raised his old gray head, 'Good friend, in the path I have come/ he said, 'There folio weth after me today, A youth whose feet must pass this way. This chasm which has been but naught to me To that fair-beaded youth may a pitfall be; Ik, too, must cross in the twilighi dim, Good friend, I am buiJ ling chii bridgi foi him ' bfdid must be that soul, and narrow the vision, of the Klansman , , , « his hour cannot hear the footfalls of the millions of American tnd girls who are following after us. So, for my contribution hour, I would suggest that, if our Order is to be perpetuated, ith the others, we must begin today to build the bridges across i jms that lie in the pathway of the American youth of tomorrow. 1 have time to suggest but two or three of these chasms. An abys- m ,| . |, ism is the chasm of ignorance, with its handmaidens— super- | prejudice and passion. I remind you that it is the tendency ns of a democracy to forget the blessings of government. As . llt measured, four hundred years is but an instant; yet four , d years ago this was a wilderness, it was the habitat of the | ,,, I remind you also that human nature is the same today as four hundred years ago, or indeed four thousand years ago. hundred years ago, your fathers and mine were human as today luiman. They were citizens of England, of Scotland, of Ireland, ,j i„ |.. ml u, and of the other Northern and Western States of Europe. h id their homes, their families, their loved ones, their friends, „,. .cries, their lodges, their churches. Every sentiment that I about their homes and firesides was as near and as dear to , . i he sentiments and traditions that hover about our homes and . , ,, irc near and dear to us today. Yet those forefathers, yours i ■ kft their homes and their firesides, their friends, their , their cities, their churches, they turned their backs upon , . i that was dear to them, and sailed across an unknown ocean I ,„ unl. nown land— a land of privation and suffering and sacrifice. I km been bold enough to come half way across this continent ou Klansrnen and Americans, today, why? did your forefathers leave their homes and loved ones, every- „ was dear to them, to cross the Atlantic and establish this V ls it to found a country wherein every inhabitant should |ti , n and not a subject, free from tyranny and oppression? Yes. Oid they come across the sea to build a nation wherein no citizen , hM | >( ,,, knee to king or czar or emperor? Where every man could i |p< ! according to the dictates of his own conscience? Yes. I | tblish a democratic form of government? Yes. All of that. ,11 j that, ray friends, you have heard since the days hildhood. ! come to suggest that the vision of those v , infinitely broader than all that. They saw ■ t | l( „ , , ss the seas a nation of real democracy; a democracy H |, and noi oJ form, a democracy of the individual and not „, , d racy wh< every embryi citizen, without ■ I respect to class or creed or condition, should have a fair chance in life; a land where every boy, every girl on the farm, in the shop, in ] the' store, however circumscribed in condition, however handicapped in position, however limited In opportunities, should have a fair chance— not only a legal right, but a fair chance—to step out into the limelight of real opportunity, to grow, to develop, to mature, physically, mentally, and morally, into full blown man- hood and womanhood. "Now having suggested that, I come frankly and openly to ask you have we builded here such a nation as was in the minds and the souls of our forefathers? Have we builded. a State that even approxi- mates the vision of those forefathers? "I am not here to sound a pessimistic note, I have no dark, no dismal, no depressing sentiments to express. We have builded here a great nation. Our schools and our colleges ate crowded, such as they are; we have improved wonderfully the highways of our nation,; we have established at least the foundation of modern health depart- ments in our State— wonderful progress, in a measure. Yet I cite to you the fact that in all the States with which I am acquainted, all uplifting and inspiring agencies are crying out for the very breath of ! life, and suffering growing pains, so much so that if they measure upj to pressing opportunities and advantages to the youth of the land>j they will have to double and then quadruple the proceeds for the main- tenance of every such institution. "If the colleges of your State are sending forth hundreds ofgradl nates annually, I come to ask what of the ten thousands up in the mountains, and across the plains, who are crying out for such an opportunity? While at this hour we are here enjoying the enlighten- ment and elevating fellowship of this wonderful gathering, I am ask- ing you what of the masses on the outside? Your State, like mine, is graduating annually a few thousand from the accredited high schools' One-half of those graduates of the high schools will find M doors of our colleges locked to their entrance if they apply, becauj of a lack of room— dormitory space, equipment of laboratory and other appliances necessary for their entertainment and their education^ "Ah, that is somewhat of a sad picture. But what of the oth half of the boys and girls of America who never have seen a colleg or a high school; those boys and those girls out on the farm, an in the store, and in the shops, whose only approach to manhood an to womanhood, whose only solution of the problems and of the bless* Ings and the comforts of life are through those one-teachcredcunpaintd ichooi houses, without pictures, withoui aughi to inspiri to the 1 ! | | lie tic, to the divine— those antiquated and antedated school and schools averaging from three to four and five months in if? I want to say in frankness that it will not do to conclude that or girl of today has the chance that his or her forefathers i he seas had in their minds and hearts for them in this democracy Hi. individual. It is true that occasionally you will find isolated ■. where boys or girls go away from home and wait on the I i ep books at night, and do a thousand other things, and by iwii effort finally succeed in educating themselves. I have not I of censure; I have the other extreme, the very extreme, and . in. ■ , admiration for them. It is true that Abraham Lincoln never I high school or a college. But I call your attention to the fact where, and somehow, Abraham Lincoln and his fellows of ;s had the spark of inspiration and of ambition kindled in ill Is. point is this: we have not measured up to even the shadow obligation, under the vision of our forefathers, until we have ,1. to the other half of the boys and girls who themselves have not 1 . 1 1 !.. of inspiration kindled in their souls, who have not waked Who have not found themselves, that opportunity. for acquiring I I is true that there are thousands of boys and girls who, if they I.m'.Ii schools and colleges at their front doors would not take I ; , of that opportunity. But that still does not answer our i non to the tens of thousands of boys and girls on the moun- lidi s, and on the sandy slopes and in the plains of this nation, I crying out for a chance— for a chance. If Daniel Webster / Cla y and Abraham Lincoln and John C. Calhoun illuminated of American history and illustrated American manhood, in hci j use somehow and somewhere the spark of ambition was i i heir souls, and their hands and their hearts were attuned i ion of progress and of development in their lives. I I ask, of the tens of thousands of potential Websters and 1 1 id Calhouns and Lincolns all over this land, who also are ...ii for ." chance to develop their souls and their hearts for , - in America I If lulison and Bell and the Wrights and Ford and the other . oi America have today gone out to develop the nat- iil , . oi our (oin i try, it was because some school, or some or I I niioi i uiiud (heir hands and their hearts to develop , ,, i in i.i I o lources With natural resources of America unscratcliea and untouched, with wealth untold, sufficient not only to educate every boy and girl in America, but with a surplus sufficient to bring comfort to every citizen of this nation, I ask what of the tens of thousands of Edisons and Bells and Fords, who are crying out for a chance to develop their minds and their hearts and their hands— to go out and see that the natural resources of America are developed" "Now you ask me, as a practical man: What is the answer to tins appeal? The answer is to educate the boys and girls of America. Consolidate your country schools, give them— every boy and every girl— entrance into a high class, nine months, high grade high school. In God's name, let us not penalize a boy or a girl simply because he or she happened to be born in the country. Give them the same chances that you give to the boy or the girl who happens to be born in the town or the city, "The answer to all problems of America is education. Train the citizen to think straight, and all of our problems, civic and political, will be solved. Train men and women to think straight, and bol- shevism, radicalism and every other noxious ism will vanish away. Train the man to think straight, and he will treat his neighbor fairly. Moreover, he will never rest until his neighbor treats his neighbor fairly. When that system is carried out to its last analysis then the spirit of brotherly love, peace and good-will will prevail; it will overflow the boundaries of America; and we will go on and on until every nation on the globe permits the same spirit to dominate and to control; and then war will cease, and we will have the world for which we pray to God. "In God's name, brethren, let us at this hour dedicate our lives to at least laying the foundation— of building the bridge acrosj the chasm of ignorance and superstitution and hatred and passion f this Klonvokation assembled. "The next chasm, and one closely associated and aligned with it, is the chasm of isolation. We need to build better highways] better roads, in America. Build a modern highway, and every foot of land in miles of it will double in value. Your agricultural interest: 1 will prosper, business will be strengthened, your social fabric anc social life will be revolutionized. The light of civilization, of refine- ment, of education, will follow. By every appeal, every appeal td man, let me urge that all our people be given the supreme advantages of modern highway construction. Those highways are absolutely necessary before we can realize the ambition to give the modern con- solidated school and educate our people. '•I II., third bridge which I suggest to you, and it needs only a i far my time is limited, is the bridge across the chasm of Do you know, my brethren, that one-third of the citizens | Itu I lni led States of America are suffering with one form or another Two-thirds of that one-third is preventable. A man can mki proper contribution to his own happiness, to the happiness hi [ imily, and certainly not to the development and progress of ., ,„ , if he is bound and shackled by bonds of physical weakness l iiflcri ng. Of the malaria, dengue, hook worm, typhoid, tuber- Lj i wo-thirds of it is preventable. I do not know, my brethren, | iImi we could perhaps render greater service to our nation if we ,nU hike the lead and demand it, that two-thirds of the sickness , i 1 1 g of America be obliterated by the establishment and proper mm.. ,, ,, uc of modern health departments in the different States of 11,11 mil. CJiv. us better schools, better colleges, better highways, and IhmIi.Ii; and then better homes and better churches will follow, ill have the reign of peace and happiness in America. | ( ntally, of course, there are other problems which must be . ,1 To supply these consolidated high schools over this land, we | I, , , larger and better equipped normal schools to train and p ,1m «, achers for those schools. You must have technological mi , ,m the minds and hands of the boys to develop the nat- ives of America, that we may have the means to develop nil,,, necessary fundamentals of our national life. I shall not his. I s one other, and final, bridge that must be built. It is iliai will protect us in our national life. What good will i,| win to train and develop the minds and hearts and bodies ..., [> U ys and our girls, what good will it do if we build a bridge chasm and at the end of the highway of youth— at the , >| the boy and the girl— there is a darkened and a poisoned i , .].. uleni nation for them to live in? . i ,, si that wc look to the stream of poison that is being l ;, our national life through the admission of that lower i ..,,., i h a t have been admitted into this land in the years ii<>m h Mm. .. ii. ithci a narrow nor a restricted suggestion that I am ,, KOU [ n n., liisi place, I want to say that this does not CI s would Ik.vc it, that we are making a fight upon m( tlt i 10 ii ( church, or the Roman Catholic creed or the Roman Uj i on Asa good Baptist, and as I crustagood American, *5 I would shed every drop of blood in my body in fighting any man who would place even a feather's weight in the way of a Roman Catholic girl who on the Sabbath morning walked out of a Roman Catholic home to go to a Roman Catholic church to worship in the' Roman Catholic Sunday School — following the Roman Catholic creed which she learned as the right creed from a Roman Catholic mother. "But it is a far different thing, an infinitely different thing, when a Roman Catholic secretary of an over-indulgent president so manipu- lates the chicanery of politics that he will place in the center of every national war camp a Roman Catholic church, and drive outside of the border of that camp, on the back streets, in the back yard, on the alley-ways, every Presbyterian, every Methodist $n& every Baptist, and every other Protestant church, "It is a far different thing when a gang of Roman Catholic priests takes charge of a national convention of a great political party, and orders that party to nominate a Roman Catholic for president — the^ equivalent of saying: 'You shall not nominate a Protestant for presi- dent of the United States.' "It is a far different thing, fellow Klansmen, for the Roman Catho- lic Church to organise a secret, oath-bound society whose member- ship is limited to Roman Catholics, a society whose members vote like one man at the behest of a foreign leader, and then say that it will drive out of America any number of Protestants who see fit toi establish for themselves a secret and oath-bound organization that^ may, if they will vote like one man, preserve the integrity of Amer- ican democratic institutions. "We have no light to make upon the Roman Catholic, no light upon the Roman Catholic Church, no fight upon the Roman Catholic creed, no fight upon the Roman Catholic religion. We are here to protect, as the fundamental of our American government, and the basis of our American Constitution, the right of religious freedom in America. "Let me say with equal frankness and earnestness that this Organ- ization, as I see and understand it, has no fight to make upon the foreigner as a foreigner. Carrying you back again to the beginning of this nation, I remind you that our forefathers, every one of them, were foreigners. If you can, make proper provision for the labor con- ditions of this Union, and I admit it entirely proper and fair and wise that provision be made for labor and capital (they are togcthct- interested, and equally interested in the solution of that problem}] but if that problem permits, I have no objection i<> ;i reasonable nunv ■ des, of Norwegians or of any other type of those Northern m States of Europe coming into this country— if in coming rhcy intend to make one hundred per cent Americans. I would build a wall of steel, a wall as high as Heaven, against uission of a single one of those Southern Europeans who never hi ihe thoughts or spoke the language of a democracy in their I uMiild go further. I would place not only every one of those ihall come here in the future, but every one of those of recent about whom there is any doubt as to their loyalty, on probation. feu hi lei them, for a term of one year— or three years or five years— liool in the academy of democracy, and in the meantime 1 M,i (hern report monthly or quarterly to some postmaster or . ... Ik i federal officer of this land; and I would let those officers , upon the immigrant the yard stick of one hundred per cent Amer- n in, .ind if at the end of that reasonable time he did not speak our ■ , and did not qualify as a one hundred per cent American, then Quid, H necessary, send him back across the ocean. I here is no land like my land beneath the shining sun. iv is no flag like my Flag in all the world, not one. i iik land, one tongue, one people, and one Flag, loyal and true; Ami no red shall wave o'er ray fair land, V, i [limit the white and blue. I In re is grandeur in my land's mountains, re is contentment in her vales, I line's wealth in her broad prairies,d there's freedom in her gales. In my hind all men are equal, ; her Flag proclaims it, too. 1 no red shall wave o'er that fair land, -ut the white and blue. I • majesty in Old Glory; rhcri is hope in each stripe and star, I I heralds freedom and liberty, I o ii. n ions near and far. ! unsullied, triumphant, glorified, I I floats anew, and by the Eternal God, No red shall wave o'er my fair land, Without the white and blue. •, i,< u men, at perhaps too great length I have endeavored .... i to you what I believe was the full and broad conception . | lism and of democracy that inspired the souls of our fore- i tin establishment of this government. Yet I do not be- ,Imi i h.i i as< ■ tided the pinna* le, the supreme high point of that conception. In my judgment, those forefathers saw here an asylum of democracy, of liberty, and of freedom — the seed corn of democracy and freedom for all the nations of the earth. Let me say in only terms of suggestion that if the democracy which I have feebly described to you — freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of worship, right to assemble, all the fundamentals of the American institutions of democracy — if such democracy is best for the boy and the girl of America, then as an American and as a Klans- man, I want to say to you that that form of democracy is also best for the boy and the girl in France, in Germany, in Japan and in China, and it is the hope of the world. It rests with the democracy of America to lead those nations into peace. "My final suggestion, brethren, is that, although we have had a nation here for some hundred and fifty years, the democracy of America is still in the experimental stage. The eyes of the world are upon us, and upon our form of government. If democracy, true de- mocracy of the individual, is to reign in the other nations, thenwej must crown this government of ours with final success; and if it does succeed permanently, it will succeed upon the basis, the foundation stones, which I have indicated to you today. If there is to be peace on earth, if war is to be ended, and there shall be the reign of the Golden- Rule, then the leadership is in your hands and in mine as American citizens. "I come with my final word to ask; What are you going to do about it? What did you come here for? On a frolic? To have a good time? Or did you come to get inspiration to serve your fellow men, for the making of better citizens, in this new empire of America? Down in a Southern State one of the great public utilities has a motto, a very popular and a very inspiring one: 'It is great to be a Georgian.' It is great to be a Georgian, and I know some of you will agree with me that it is great to be a Nebraskan, and it is great to be a Kansan,; and it is great to be a Texan. But, boys, I want to say to you in this hour of our nation's crisis, in this call for leadership that comes outM from all the nations of the earth, a man is indeed not a Georgian, he is not a Nebraskan, he is not a Texan, if he does not dedicate every thought and every service of his soul to the uplift of his people, and to the progress of his State. "I want to make this personal application, exceedingly personal-* and I believe you will forgive me. I want each of you to conceivd at this moment in your own soul the highest point in the world's estimation that you ever aspired to, whether it be the foremost roudj in the realm of your profession, the great empire leader in the industrii greatest man in the financial circles of America, or to carve If in your imagination the very highest niche in the hall of Dili || you will. Let me say that assuming that at the end of your life fc bitvi reached that pinnacle, if at that moment you bequeath to . Iiililrcii, and to your children's children, a dying and decadent P L hat is less fit for those children to live in, then your life will . .in utter, miserable failure. rcat edifice was under construction. A stranger walked I i workman and said: 'My friend, what are you doing here?' aid : T am piddling on stone.' He walked up to a second and said to him: 'My friend, what are you doing here?' H plied: 'I am working for six dollars a day/ He walked to a I in m and said to him: 'My friend, what are you doing here?' I his eyes toward the East, with a vision that characterizes M constructive movement, pointed his fingers to the spires underfill edifice as they lifted themselves into the very n tiul said: 'I'm building a cathedral.' WhIi my last word I come to you and ask: What are you doing W I i.i i are you going to do with the balance of your life? Are ;i ling to' piddle on stone?' Are you going to piddle on the .i t v> on the froth and the foam of worldly living— just I kj piddle on stone? Arc you? You marvelous personnel, you ,i li.Milrlered, magnificent, stalwart, red-blooded, one hundred Americans out there— are you going to work for six dollars \u you going to shrivel yourself into the sordid shell of si II your very soul for sordid dollars that will be a curse to id worse than a curse to your children after you are gone— in p| l-i I of "me and my wife, and my son John and his wife; we mo more'? In God's name, men, are you going to work dollars a day'? Or, with your feet planted on the solid rock mil with your hands openly and boldly, and without apology, ■ I in i he hands of the Master, your eyes turned to the East, with lhat looks out into the future— aye, that looks through itself, with your life dedicated to the worship of God and to ice at vour fellow man— will you build of your life a cathedral?" HIM".) an Carter. "Right after our next speaker finishes, a pic- ,il I., taken of the hall, with you men seated as you are. The ! | ,,,, jsKlansman , of the Realm of Michigan, who lelivci an address of response to Klansman George C. McCarron, I H ,j» I Missouri, who delivered an address of welcome on i i in. nit n of Missouri. ' AMERICA AT THE CROSS ROADS By A Distinguished Klansman "Mr, Chairman, Your Excellency, Klansmen, Americans: There is given to me the very great pleasure this afternoon of responding to the address of welcome which has been delivered to us by the Grand Dragon of Missouri in behalf of the Klansmen of Missouri and the Central West, I wish to say, at the very outset, that I do not hope to attain to the high levels of thought and eloquence of the man who has delivered us this remarkable and splendid address of welcome. I, however, do hope that I shall match him in the sincerity of my purpose, and in the earnestness of my heart, as I shall try to make vocal and articulate the feelings of the Klansmen who have come here from the various parts of the nation, as we try in this brief address to express the appreciation that we feel for the remarkable welcome that has been delivered. "The Grand Dragon of the Realm of Missouri has called our at- tention to the fact that the city of Kansas City is known as the heart I of America. I am wondering if there is not a double significance in that slogan today. Is it not a fact that, in a very true sense of the word, this Klonvokation assembled here in this city is the heart of America? "Are not the Klansmen, here gathered from our far flung battle lines, men who exemplify in life and character the great principles underlying our national civilization? And may it not be a fact, also, that out from this Klonvokation through all the arteries of our great; national life there will flow the life blood that will make our nation better, more nearly what God and its founders intended it should be? "The Grand Dragon of the Realm of Missouri has said in his wel- coming words to us that we are at the gateway of the great West, a beautiful symbol. We are glad that we are here enjoying this great Central West. We are inspired by the broad stretches and by the beautiful scenery, and by the limitless opportunities; but I ask again, may not that slogan have a double and a deeper significance? Shall not this Klonvokation be a gateway to a larger service for humanity, to a larger service for America? Shall we not go out from this place] with enlarged hearts and deepened consecration to be better citizens of our great country, and to spread abroad these great principles ofl justice and liberty for which we stand? "I wish to come here as a representative of these men who are here from all parts of our great nation r<> say m (he EClansmcn of the nil West that we, with you, at this Klonvokation desire to affirm . Our unwavering faith in the great principles underlying the of the Ku Klux Klan. ish also to state that we, with you, will here again declare ■ rving devotion to the propagation of these great principles n 1 1 i hi \ shall have reached the uttermost limits of our great nation. consecrate ourselves. Why? Because we know these i. 1 1 J- *. are right; we know they are right because they are taken hand of the Lowly Nazarene and fastened firmly to our hearts, thence to the heart of Almighty God. We know that the prim . underlying this great American movement are right because I ■ ply embedded in that Gibraltar Rock, the Constitution r United States of America. They are right, and right will Ml no desire to inject into this assembly any word of un~ ess; neither would I seem a bit pessimistic, but I shall de- mii friends who have welcomed us that we come from the stretches of our great national life, we come to you with < i j difficult problems and some very heavy burdens. We have I hen to sit together, hoping and trusting that this may be a Hi | .. i chamber of inspiration and of power, in order that we may tgain to our tasks better able to meet these difficult situa- I il< clare to you, my friends, that our great nation today, as iaid by a previous speaker, faces a crisis. Perhaps we are mI\ at the brink of moral bankruptcy than at any time in i >>i j of our great nation. Perhaps the crisis that confronts us I lansmen, Americans, is a greater crisis than has ever com I ..in fellow citizens at any time in our national life. I look i our great nation, and what do I see? Ah, my friends, my when I think of Old Glory and all that it stands for, and by which it was dedicated and baptized, and have to con- | Old Glory waves over aland that is disgraced by a crime q ualed in all the nations of the earth. I am ashamed as ■ chat i his great nation, with its billions of dollars of income, i | n mil every year more than 15% of those vast billions of In handling the crime situation, under the glorious Stars n crying CO tell you that there is something fundamentally lomcthing that must be corrected, if we are to pass on to 1 1 11. grcal heritage that we have received from our fore- 1 mi hi 1- in all seriousness to tell von that there must be a '' re-dedication of our lives to the great purposes of this Organization if we are to save our country in this hour of its darkness. "What do I find in regard to the churches of this country— tl faith of our fathers, that glorious faith? They gave it to us. Ho is it in America today, the faith of our fathers? Is it alive, virile, driving? Ah, my friends, I must confess to you that the faith of ouij fathers is today assaulted by a modern materialistic civilization that finds no place for God in His Universe. "The faith of our fathers is, assaulted by a pseudo-ecclesiasticisd that would deny man the privilege of going direct to his Creator with his needs, and his prayers for help. We must come back again to the faith of our fathers'. The result of this carelessness on the part of the people of our nation in regard to the deeper things of life has closed the doors of thousands of Protestant churches; others, today, if not boarded up, are attended only by a handful of people, ministered to by discouraged shepherds. Men, in the old Book, for which we stand and whose teachings we revere, there is a statement that has never been contradicted, and which cannot be gainsaid. That state*] ment says that the nation that forgets God shall be turned into hell If you look up the derivation of that word 'hell' you will see that it means confusion, trouble and disorder. What is the condition o: America today, when last year more than io,ooo people were killec in this country by the hand of the murderer? What is the condition of America, when by actual statistics we have seventeen times as much crime in this country as they have in England? Men, I cannot but hi serious today as I tell you that in all history there has never beei} recorded a nation that succeeded and continued that forgot religion And there never will be such a nation. "This Klonvokation must be a call to our knees, a call to prayed and a call to communion with God. We join with you Klansmen o the great Central West, and ask you to unite with us, that we shal go down from here with the faith of our fathers in our own hearuj and lives. "What condition do we discover out in the broad stretches as Wl look at our schools. Schools! Klansmen believe in schools— -the) believe in one school, in a free public school. Klansmen believe tha if ail the children of this nation, of whatever creed, were educate! in one free public school there would be less rancor and discorj and misunderstanding between the various races and creeds withif our borders. We stand for one great public school system for all o( our people. 1 111 my friends, some of the criticisms that are passed upon our ,< hool in these days are justified. If we are to preach one , ublii school system for all people, then our school system must . i\ best system — measured by every standard that is good. I I., wl find in our school system today? I am afraid that many ducators have forgotten the real purpose of education. Our .h,I. have become a training ground of intellect and not a train- ud of patriotism and character. They have become utilitarian . M purpose, and parents are sending their children to school in thai they may learn to make a living, or make money, with ih i hat we have in this land today many hundreds of thou- . ..I trained intellects that are not buttressed by character, by noi ism. I . . i me tell you the fundamental purpose of education. The lirsl purpose underlying the free public school educational • 111 is that the citizens shall be trained — the future citizens shall \\ 1 there first in moral character, and second in citizenship mi. pji i riotism. If we lose sight of that, I cannot blame certain n! certain denominations if they shall say we shall have Ithdi.iw our children from the public school in order that they i. ligious and moral training. . .ill upon you Klansmen, and I ask of you men who have web & in in cordially here today, to join with us in the re-establish- mcrica of the right ideals of education. Let us make educa- iii education of character, and of heart, and then we shall - disgraced as a nation by having young men that have passed I high schools and even our universities commit crimes | .1 uMc, and almost unknown in history. i ii. i rain both the intellect and the heart. Lincoln, in that (icccli on the field of Gettysburg, when it was being dedicated i. r .il cemetery, out of the agony of his heart, looking with ..id vision and his clear conception of conditions as they pre- I in America, said: 'Government of the people, by the people, people shall not perish from the earth.' That great man i i hi i grcal statesman, whose name we revere, was not speak- Itlli words. He knew there was danger that- free government, cil in America, might perish from America, and that if it | I from America it would perish from the earth. in. ndi, l declare unto you that a crisis similar to the one in. I, ..in grcai martyred president called attention has come , ih, people oi America todaj [f"vy< look out into the political "y— realms we discover in many places that they have no government b the people. There is a government by political machines that are corrupt, by shyster politicians, by cliques, and by crowds; but govern- ment by the people pre-supposes an educated, informed, activd electorate— and that we have not in America today. Many of our, people do not even exercise their right of suffrage, with the result that a few tricky, scheming politicians often control whole sections of our nation. What is the great duty, then, of Klansmen in the political arena? What is the duty of every one of us? It is to arouse our fellovd citizens to a sense of their civic duty and responsibility, in orde| that government of the people, for the people and by the people shall not perish from the earth. "We must not only by example, but by precept, declare that 1 this country the theory upon which our government is founded i| that every man is a sovereign, that he is a king. Upon us today is the great responsibility of pressing home again upon the people of out nation that if we continue as a people, free government must be an established fact. Let me call your attention to this great mi that free government is still in its experimental stages. "Therefore, upon us devolves the great responsibility of bringing home to the people their imperative duty before God— then, second an an informed and active electorate. "What do we find as we look out over the homes of the nation? Ah, my friends, we know that the home is the chief cornerstone oi our' national life. The home has ever been the pride of America The influence of the father and of the mother upon their childred has been a guiding and molding influence as these children have gone out from the homes and into the active life of the country But what have we today in the homes of America? With shamed face I have to admit that there is the most flagrant disregard for the moj sacred obligations of life. There is disregard for loyalty betweei husband and wife, there is a growing carelessness on the part o parents in demanding obedience from their children. There is dia regard for parental authority on the part of children, until the grcal and glorious home that has made America what it is today seems tj he degenerating and disappearing, and in its place there is a rendezvous or a place to come when the day's activities and pleasures are ovci Can we bring America forward again to see clearly that upon the great fundamentals depends our perpetuity as a nation? "We must re-establish the church, the Protestant church, t school, the public school, government, government of the peopl the home, the sacred Christian home, ifwc arc to continue as a natil M Lsli to affirm, and to reaffirm, at this time that the Knights | Ku Klux Klan, as I understand the Organization, and as I see r the country, is not in any sense an anti-organization. I thing more I wish to say. I believe that these problems, yyhitli I have called attention, are gradually and surely being ■ I l\ this great movement. would not have you think because I have called attention to | things that I have come from any border of the land that is i -, rapid progress and advancement. I believe in all of our | battle lines; there is advancement, and there is progress, . i \ year marks a new milestone of victory and of advancement. Mn only saying these things to stir your hearts by way of remem- ih.it our task is only begun and not fulfilled, that we have i before us; because our enemies are abroad, every effort is made to discredit us and our work. But we stand today as a y, standing for the great principles of justice, and freedom, i in our American national life, with no rancor, with no riih no prejudice against any creed or sect or religion. We ICii i .» I ling all of our brothers who with us call this Flag their [i :erity and in truth. We are not saying to the man who was I foreign land: 'We will have none of you/ If that man is ..i I hi ,1 into our body, if he knows no allegiance to any other ■ -.kill call him brother, we shall recognize him as an Ameri- lha.ll ask him to share with us our responsibility of making I. i what God and our fathers intended it should be. And also |« w, that we are accused of being hateful towards — we have IK li hatred in our hearts toward the Jew. If he owes no alie- ns any other flag, if America is first in his heart, and he holds id. d allegiance, we shall not discriminate against him because I M. hicw. .one thing is true in regard to Roman Catholics. I believe i • I iringing to many American Roman Catholics the thought n. ver have had before, that the great principles underlying in .it ion are after all the principles that have made our Wftt. I believe we shall see, as Martin Luther saw, when he M - .1 n Hiteousness by faith and not by priests and witnessed large Oi people leaving that ancient faith—protesting against the ..I .i religion that was autocratic. If the Knights of the Ku i I mi stand firm for truth, without rancor, without hate, neither hmm nor anti-foreigner, but pro-Protestant and pro-Ameri- ihfllJ lec many within the ranks of those who have been ■ ) i ill. i [|i.mi\ of religion, as we believe, coming into the joy and the freedom and the glory thai we ourselves experience in] our daily lives. 14 We have no fight with our Roman Catholic friends. We will noj say to them that in their religion they are not as much in their right as we are; for our Constitution declares for them the right, as it declares for us, the right to worship God according to the dictates of con- science. We call our Roman friends brothers and say to them: *So long as you are about your prayers, and so long as you are aboufj your religion and your civic duties, we shall not quarrel with you— you shall be our brothers and our co-workers. But we wish to warn you that if you have a divided allegiance, if you owe allegiance toj any power foreign to America, then the united hosts of Klansmenl millions strong, will rise up and say to you, and it is our perfect! legitimate right to say this, that the seat of our government for Amer-j ica is on the Potomac, and not on the Tiber.' "On those things we stand firm. And we shall also say with] equal frankness and determination that America has but one language,] that America has andmust have only one school, and that so long as the| keep their hands off those things that are American and do not in an] way try to make them un-American, just so long will we co-operate with them and call them our fellow-workers. "I believe, my friends, that we are at the threshhold of a new day. I believe the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan is the instrument in t§ hands of Almighty God in bringing about the" purposes that He del sires to accomplish. He has counted us faithful, putting us into this ministry, and I declare to you that, if we keep our heads, if we keep o\ hearts clean, if we keep our zeal at white heat, if we go on perfecting our plans and accomplishing our purposes, within one decaJ of today every fair-minded man and woman in America will than] the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan that they saved America in one her most awful crises, "But I say to you with equal earnestness that if the Knights the Ku Klux Klan are recreant to duty, if we lose the vision that Go< Almighty has given us, if we allow ourselves to be sidetracked switched off into any by-paths, if we allow division or rancor to gel within our ranks, if we lose the high and noble purpose that haj called us together, then God Almighty will take the work He 1 ' given to us from our hands and give it to another. God's purpl will not fail, and cannot fail; but we will not be His servants in a< complishing this great purpose i£ we fail in our duty. Tf we stan« true and firm, He will bless us in our efforts. We shal] sec our natil irward again to a new evaluation of those principles that ight out in our Constitution so long ago. We shall see our tning forward again to a proper appreciation of God and of ch, and of religion as a part of life, and a part of the daily H mm of every man. We shall see this nation coming forward to I valuation of a school system that will educate children not money making machines, but will educate them in the funda- I Christian character and integrity, and in truth. And best, ■rcurcst of all, we shall see all of our people alive to the dignity i. privilege of taking part in the government of this great nation, hall exemplify to all the world that a people can govern li in h ! I Is, I have painted for a moment a dark picture, and now I , I to put light upon it. I have called your attention to the 1 1. 1 1 this nation has some very serious conditions, which if they are i . . .m . . ted must end in our defeat as a nation. But, dark as it may |i ..in faith and confidence is in God, and in our fellow men, if iscs are true and determined, then we can say with the poet: Out of the night that covers me, Black as the night, from Pole to Pole, [ thank whatever Gods there be, For my unconquerable soul. In the fell clutch of circumstance:, I have not winced nor cried aloud. Under the bludgeon of chance, My head is bloody, but unbowed. Beyond this place of wrath and tears, Looms but the horror of the Shade, And yetj the menace of the years. Finds and shall find me unafraid. It matters not how straight the gate, How charged with punishment the scroll, I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul. men arc the masters of the fate of America. They are the i the sou! of America. Then conquer we must, When our cause it is just; And this is our motto, 'hi i rod Is our trust.' " (Applause. ) Klansman Carter, "The next order of business is the introduction of the Imperial Klaliff, who is the presiding officer of the Imperial Klonvokation, as designated in the Constitution and Laws of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan. It is my pleasure and privilege to introduce Klansman Walter F. Bossert, Imperial Klaliff of our Order." (Applause.) Klansman Bossert. "Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency and my fellow Klansmen: I do not intend to make you a speech at this time. As I shall have the privilege of laboring with you for a few clays, I wish to say at this time that during the deliberations you possibly will hear me a great deal. I only want to say to you on this occasion that if we will all get the vision, the same as these speakers who have preceded me here today have, I shall have no worry about the future of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan. (Applause.) "Now at this time it is my duty, under our Constitution, to ap- point a Committee on Rules. I am taking the liberty of appoint-. ing Klansman — , of Texas, as chairman. Is Klansman here? Will you come forward, Klansman - * (Klansman came forward amidst applause.) "I also wish to appoint on this Committee with you Judge Henry Grady of North Carolina. Klansman Grady will you come forward? "I will also appoint Klansman John G. Locke of Colorado. Is the Doctor here? ' 'I wish also to appoint Klansman H. C. McCall of Washington, D. C. "And last, but not least, I wish to appoint Klansman Charles H. McBrayer of the State of Kansas. "Now, gentlemen, if you will retire at this time, while I am heal- ing some other reports, I shall appreciate it very much. "While these gentlemen are working on their report, I would like to have the report of the Credentials Committee. Klansman Bush of New York, Klansman Ramsey, Klansman Hogston of Indiana,; and Klansman Reed of Kansas, I think are on this Committee. Klansman Bush, are you ready to make your report? (Applause.) Klansman Bush. "Mr. President and members of the KlonvokJ tion : Before I present the official report of the Credentials Committee, your Committee desires to take this opportunity to express its sincere: appreciation to the visitors and to the delegates to this Klonvokation for the cheerful, courteous and kindly manner in which you havd each co-operated with the Committee in helping it carry out its work. The work of a Credentials Committee, as many of you know, is some- times tedious, sometimes turbulent, and perhaps sometimes thanklesl Mi. work oi your Committee has been changed from a labor into pleasure by virtue of your co-operation. I hi Committee desires to thank each of you personally for fol- the simple, but necessary, rules laid down, governing the ol credentials, and desires to comment, on the fact that not a i dited delegate to this Klonvokation hesitated or refused , I .i j he second, or metallic, part of his credentials! (Laughter.) , „|] delegate registered, he was given a registration card : the new fifty-cent pieces just issued in commemoration of ucnot-Walloon Tercentenary, as a souvenir.) 1 1 President, and Klonvokation: Your Credentials Committee to present the following report. It has examined and certified }{]« directness of the credentials of the following Klansmen in tiding, all of whom are entitled to seat, voice and vote in 1 invokation. | if iv, Mr, President, follow the list. of some five hundred odd and delegates. If the Klonvokation desires to hear these d names read, I shall be glad to read them. (Cries of 'No,') li noi , I would suggest that the reading of the list of the Imperial (institute the reading of the whole/' }Hstttan Bossert. "With your consent, Klansmen, the chair- • .11 proceed with his reading. Is that your consent? (Cries of an Bush. "Dr. H. \V\ Evans, Imperial Wizard; Walter I i Imperial Klaliff; Brown Harwood, Imperial. Klazik; Charles , r, Imperial Klokard; Dr. Edwin De Barr, Imperial Kludd; K.niisey, Imperial Kligrapp; S. H. Venable, Imperial Klabee; Wlni.icre, Imperial Klarogo; T. J. Shirley, Imperial Klexter; r.ihendge, Imperial Klonsel; Judge J. A. Comer, Imperial Hawk; Gen. N. B. Forrest, Imperial Klokann Chief; Ben H. Imperial Klokan; Judge Henry A. Grady, Imperial Klokan; 1 all, Imperial Klokan. omc five hundred odd delegates are accredited. The Cre- l I ommittee presents that as its report to this Klonvokation i he adoption of same." ion was seconded, put and earned— none but accredited i ..i ing. i WM fosstrt. 'The motion is carried: While this other mmJltci i. Klansman Carter, may I ask you to have the band pieci Klansman Carter. "Will the hand from Colorado favor us wit] a piece of music, please?" {Selections by the band.") Klansman Bossert. "At this time. Klansman Carter wishes td make some announcements. Klansman Carter. Klansman Carter " I have been asked to make some announcement! that will be of interest to those who are here from out of town, and to those who are here from our own jurisdiction in regard to the program and other matters incident to the Klonvokation. "In the first place, tonight at 8 p. m ' the Wichita Team wil exemplify, for your pleasure and entertainment and education, oud Rtaal K-Uno. On tomorrow night at 8 o'clock, a Klavern of Sorroj will be conducted, which promises to be one of the hnest exemphrJ cations of ritualism that has ever been attempted AH G rand D .gon| Great Titans and Imperial Officers are included in the Staff that j necessary to stage this particular work. There will be approximate^ one hundred and fifty in the cast, and all Klansmen, whether they ad delegates or visitors, are requested to be here on that night especnilly On Thursday night, an entertainment has been provided for th official delegates and as many of the visiting Klansmen as it will bd possible to take care of. A theatre has been rented for that evening, and there will be distributed on Thursday morning to the delegates as they are seated at that time the tickets necessary to gain adnussiri to the theatre. It will all be handled in an alphabetical way, in orde that there will be no partiality shown in the distribution of the seats, It is the Orpheum Theatre. "I am going to take this opportunity to thank each and every onj of you men for the splendid co-operation which you have given o^ office in arranging for your hotel accomodations, When we wen asked to secure the rooms for the Klonvokation we went to the bM hotels in town and made a contract with them for the rooms, and j same applies to the Convention Hall. We tried to secure the best hotel, and the best hall for you men to be in. In regard to the page bay who are here in front, this is. to advise you that they are here for vou service, If you want any errand run and you do not desire to leal your seat, they are instructed to do what you ask them to do al it saves vou leaving the floor. These boys are Klansmen and all j them are members of the DeMolay. Klansman McCarron, Gran Dragon of Missouri, advises me that he has instructed our police fori which move our way (applause) that they are to be specially dilig j in arresting Klansmen who violate the i8th Amendment. (Gr| ApplauscV You have all been supplied with a Don 1 card. 1 ,, ,i few views, and 'don't' forget that you have it. We are on because the national press is covering this in every detail, M ..I vnu are honor bound to represent it as it should be repre- Mir pictures taken from time to time are being made by I M urphy. They will have them on sale in the lobby. There omc Klansmen in the gallery making notes. This must be ,: have a way to scop it if you continue your practices, lose of the exemplification of K-Uno, a Klansman from ill deliver an address/ 1 (Applause.) an Bossert, "Klansman , the Chairman of the nun nr ofi Rules, is now ready to make his report."' m _- . "Mr. President: The Committee on Rules i, recommends that the rules of parliamentary procedure i [„use of Representatives of the Congress of the United States I „ adopted as the rules of this Klonvokation. We further ! i hat all resolutions which are submitted to the Klonvo- l, ,11 be offered in writing and shall be referred to the Com- IU solutions for its action and recommendation before they and action taken by the Klonvokation. We further I Hie adoption of the following program and order of Beginning at 8 o'clock this evening, the exemplification i hen the address by Klansman- -of Texas." PROGRAM I m I devotional Exercises Prominent Minister of the Gospel , m Vocal Selection Kansas ■ fla 'art et I , ,. \ ppointment of Committees. Imperial KlaliJ] ... Address of the Imperial Wizard Dr. H. W. Evans ., RECESS FOR LUNCH I in Departmental Address Imperial Wizard I ... Report of Legal Department ..Imperial Klonse Report of Committee on address of the Imperial Klonse] . Report of Imperial Kligrapp. Report of Committee on Imperial Kligrapp s Department. Report of the Imperial Klabee. Report of Committee on the Imperial Klabee's address. Report of the Cashier. Report of Committee on the Cashier's address. :■ i port of the Finance Committee. Ri pori of the Imperial Kiazik. Rcpori of Committee on the Imperial Klazik s address. Ri port oJ (he Director of the National Lecture Bureau. Ri port of ( iommittee on the Lecture Bureau. K, p.... ..I the Unreaii of Education and Publicity. !•, p on ,,f ( ommittec on Education and Publicity. M Report of the Superintendent of Industrial Plains. Report of Committee on Industrial Plants. Report on the Insurance Department. Report of Committee on the Insurance Department- Report on the Women of the Ku Klux Klan Report of Committee on the Women of the KuKlux Klan Report of the National Director of thejumor Ku Klux K1I Report of Committee on the Junior Ku Klux Klan. Report of the Extension Department. Report of Committee on the Extension Department. (Note:— The Klonvokation will recess at the hour of 4:00 p.m., taking up £ above program the morning of September zj, where left off.) 8:30 p. m.— Klavern of Sorrow. . . .Prominent Klan Minister of Kansa\ SEPTEMBER 2.5, 1914 10 -oo a m.— Devotional Exercises . Prominent Klan Minister of AlabaM ioko a. m.-Vocal Selection . ■ ■ . . - .Kansas Quartet lo-io a m.— Resumption of business where left off September M- ii!oo n'oon-RECESS FOR LUNCH 1:30 p. m — Resumption of business. 4:00 p. m— Adjournment. t 8:30 p. m.— Entertainment Place to be announced m tm muriM SEPTEMBER 2.6, 1914 10 00 a m —Devotional Exercises, Prominent Klan Minister of Obu Jo£o a'. S'AVocd Selection. - • ■ - ^ansas Quart* i<no a. m.-Address-"The Future of the Klan . . . .Imperial W f<f 11:30 a. m.— Five minute talks by prominent Klansmen. 1 :oo p. m --Closing ceremonies and adjournment. (Motion made that the report be adopted. Motion seconded m carried— none but accredited delegates voting.) Klansman Bossert. ' 'At this time we will all stand and be adjouxl by Klansman James." ' Klansman James. "Our Father, we thank Thee for Thy present with us. We thank Thee for the messages that have fallen upon oM ears and we trust now indeed that these messages shall have takej root in our hearts. As we go away from this place, may we pond* on these things, and indeed may Klankraft mean more to us than fl ever has meant before. Help us in the deliberations of these session! and Oh God, may our hearts be inspired to live the life that Jes J would have us live to be Klansmen, to be patriots, to be better inj in every respect. Protect us and look over us and grant unco us TJ blessings in parting, and bring us together again in the name oi Lord, Amen." Klansman Carter, "In regard to the Klavern of Sorrow, chi to advise that Women of the Ku Klux Klan will be admitted CO l | (ll It is not an official session, and therefore women can at- NIGHT SESSION m McCarron. "Now, Klansmen, I want to make an .1.1 m before the event of the evening is put on. Iwaat fters who will participate in the Klavern of Sorrow, imme- 1 the closing of this meeting tonight, to report on the floor. 111 at-Arms will clear the house; he will have the boys go to bed and get a nice night's sleep. We have some , in .In here, boys." ( .m horn Wichita Klan No. 6, Kansas, exemplified K-Uno. u by the band.} McCarron. "Klansmen: At this point, I shall turn the , , to the President of the Klonvokation— Klansman Walter I Applause.) .... incut Klansman then addressed the Klonvokation. Carter. "There are still people in the gallery taking W\ are checking you very thoroughly— one gentleman from Hid one from Indiana. If that is not stopped, you will not I 10 any of the sessions tomorrow or the days to follow." . Bossert. 'Remain standing while we are dismissed by „,,„ . "Almighty God, our Father, we pray Thy Upon these who have spoken to us. May the thoughts II. cply into our souls. May we be imbued with new ideas, ..mI. into the struggle with renewed energy. 'So teach us to ...,, days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom/ Bless ,,,.1. for we feel that with Thee as our help, with Thy Son as Bicllor and our Guide, we can win every victory and achieve We pray Thee to go with us to our homes tonight. , 1 in the security of Thy presence and come back into the Hh.n tomorrow, renewed in determination to get a great d and to go to our several places of labor and impart these , we come in contact with, and thus start in motion a H thai will sweep America, and ultimately sweep the earth. . [ m p, 1 ul Wizard and his official family, and bless all those i iboring here, we ask in the name of Jesus the Christ, our . ,.i qui Lord, \ Mi' 11 SEPTEMBER 24th, 1924 MORNING SESSION Klansman Bossert, "Your devotional exercises this morning v\ be conducted by Klansman — — , of Indianapolis." Klansman ■ — — — . "Brethren: We shall worship God in the red ing of a few verses from His Book, our Book, preceding the chapt* that was read yesterday, I want to start with the 32-nd verse of the 1: chapter of Paul's Letter to the Romans, then to read in conclusion tj first verse of the twelfth chapter: For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon alj the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how i searchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out! For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counselj Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things: to whom be glo forever. 1 Bestcch you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present yo bodies a Imtig sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable servia "In the few minutes that I shall use this morning in this devotion! service, I want to talk to you about spiritualizing the Klan. We wlj are Klansmen believe in our hearts that the Klan was spiritual in its in ception. We believe that it was raised up of God to meet a grea need in America, in a crisis hour. We believe that the Klan in us have, first of all, the spiritual vision. Born of God it is spiritua and, above every other work that it has to do, its work must j spiritual. "The Klan is either Christian or it is not Christian- It is an oj ganization that is either building a temple unto the Most High Go a temple of service that shall last throughout the countless ages I eternity, or it is tearing down the work of Calvary. "This must be our vision. Without vision the people peris! and without the spiritual vision the Klan shall perish from the earfl Its work must be spiritual. We are hearing much today about th Americanizing of America; but, brethren, I declare to you that Americ is not America unless it is Christian and the un- Americans can nevj become Americans unless they be Christianized. We have a task, a| that task is the Christianizing of that great element who are nn-Chri ian in America. Fifty-four millions in this country — this great Ro public oi ours — are without the enlightening influence, arc withou the inspiration of the knowledge of the Spirit of God, as manifested and Savior, Jesus Christ. Fifty-four millions within our 1. without the Christ. This is a challenge to the Church; 1 1 hallenge to the Klan. taken the Cross as our emblem — the Cross that was lined, the Cross that bore the Redeemer of the world, the .1 [a an emblem of hope throughout all the world, the Cross begotten of the Father. We have inscribed it upon the 1I1. 1 1 we carry. But, brethren, unless the Cross has burned 1 iir, into our very souls and written its message upon the hi 1- hearts, we have no right to adopt it as an emblem of (h>d forbid that we touch the sacred Cross— the Cross l • 1 in. d the life of Him who was without sin — if we have not I ( hrist. Pilate's hall, Jesus staggered down the steps to the .M.I chat led to Calvary, and there under the burden of that H«i Mis ph ysical strength fai led . He fainted beneath its load— I 1 lotting in His hair, the perspiration drying upon His face. mi of that faint only to proceed to Golgotha, and there pierced through His hands and feet. The Cross was 1 In ipped with a thud into the earth, and upon it Jesus Christ as a ransom for many. He paid the price and justified us ■ i the Law, which had been violated, by satisfying the 1. ( ross stands as the emblem of His victory over sin, over . darkness and over all the enemies of the human soul. 1 .1. 1 he Cross of Jesus Christ has become our emblem. irry it with hands trembling, may we carry it with hearts 1 always look upon it to be reminded of the victory us when He died in its arms. The purpose of our Or- n 1. bright, noble, Heaven-born and Heaven-approved. our emblem, to mobilize the forces of righteousness ill ill* powers of ignorance and all the powers of night. Lken the Flag of Truth as our banner. We believe ...11 hearts, and God. help us today that we may search our the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan is fundamentally right, hi ji something is right it cannot be wrong, p I ol the Klan is the truth. Truth is power, truth brings ., md the banner of truth has become our Flag. An immortal lid 'Be Miie you are right; then go the limit.' We be- ir< righl under the light of the Cross, carrying the | i.. ni. vvi an passing on to certain victory- 'The tenets of the Christian faith have become the foundatij of this great God-born, God-inspired, God-directed, God-protecff Organization. Therefore, honest, fearless, intelligent, sincere servl must be the key note-the key note of every Klansman s life. H^ I taken a text this morning, I think it would have been the first ye* of the twelfth chapter of Romans. Paul is speaking about a livin sacrifice. If the world has ever needed men who are ready to la down their bodies, unreservedly and without question, for the cad of righteousness, that hour has approached. A living sacrifice- living sacrifice of selfish ambition. Oh that we might get away fror self— the thought of selfish gain or selfish position! A living saa fice in the name of Jesus Christ, for the building of His Kingdom I earth among men-this is what Paul is emphasizing. Such is hoi sacrifice, acceptable unto God. -No other service save that which is unselfish is acceptable! the sight of God. It must be an unselfish service, it must be, wi| out question, undying loyalty to Christ^to His cause, our cans. This alone will guarantee victory for our great Organization Rend( unto Caesar the things that belong to Caesar, and unto God the thirj that belong to God. But, brethren, it is utterly impossible for ! man to render to society the things that belong to society until I has surrendered his all to God. No man can claim merit within hid self. No man's hand is strong enough to conquer the enemy-sit No man can afford to stand alone. The only reason you and I h« for living— our only excuse for rubbing elbows with men-is tn we may render unto men, unto society, all that we, in the name Christ, owe them; and we owe society the righteousness Jesus Chi came to establish throughout the earth. * 'The Kian is of God, and the gates of Hell shall not prevail again it All the powers of night shall not hide its light, all the forces the enemy shall not penetrate its line; for 'if God be for us, wl can be against us?' "I would have you know, this morning, that Jesus Christ the conquering Savior. He is the Captain who has never lost a batt You remember the story of Julian, the Apostate. He said that would annihilate every Christian-that from earth the sound of i name of Jesus would no longer ring in the ears of man. Upon t battle field, leading his army against the forces of righteousness, tl Godless, Christless soldier sought to stamp from earth the name Jesus and the influence of His life. The story goes that in the settfl of the day, when the sun was about to bow his head and night to co* I" i, Julian, wounded unto death, there in those few moments i ii( | vet to live, looked upon and caught up a few drops of his ,.,| chat fell from his wounded heart, tossed them toward 1 1 id cried: 'Thou hast conquered , O Galilean!' h. name of Jesus Christ, in the spirit of the Galilean, we shall just as surely as God sits on the Eternal Throne. When bd in the hall of Pilate, Pilate asked: 'Art Thou the King?* I ped: 'Thou sayest it.' But His is not the kingdom men then mid. Jesus has neither army nor navy, nor is His head crowned He holds in His handno metal sceptre, nor does He wear regal ibes. His is the kingdom of truth and love. Pilate could tand. He asked: 'What is love, and what is truth?' Pilate, Bftte, is dead. Caesar, great Caesar is dead. The Rome of has crumbled to dust. All that was great of Rome has i into history— into dust and defeat, Rome was Godless, 1 1 pi rished. hi i lm 11, I would remind you this morning that the Christ who I Pilate's hall, declaring the unsearchable riches of the love 1 1. is become the conquering Redeemer of the world. Rome I. d, and all her power has gone to dust; but He rides as the iini', Savior. Our hearts this morning should ring out, not i , but rather in a shout of praise: All hail the power of Jesus' name, Let angles prostrate fall; Bring forth the royal diadem, And crown Him Lord of all ! i ;ing, I would say to you that when we knelt at the sacred l he sacred Book, and took for our creed the very heart n pel; when we there took that vow, that with our life's would give our all for the sake, for the purpose, for the ■ I this Organization under the leadership of that Captain ltd never lost a battle, we there presented our bodies, our ,11, as a living sacrifice, which is our reasonable service, stand and sing together, as Klansmen James leads us, be- ike the blessing of Heaven, 'All Hail the Power of Jesus' 'Before Klansman James leads us in prayer, rw our heads, incline our ears unto God, and open our hearts In i his, the beginning of the day, while you hold within ndl the destiny of a nation, while you have taken the Cross . nihil in. and Jesui Christ as your Criterion, let us intelligently, ! ' earnestly, and faithfully approach the throne of the living God. Let as pray.'* Klansman James. "Our Father, we call upon Thee in Jesus' nam! through this great Christ of God, of whom we have heard, He, thi conquering King of kings, and Lord of lords. This morning we, as