It’s enough to scare someone off of having children.Whether it’s gluten or plastics or peanuts, it seems young and new parents have more and more social taboos to navigate.The latest parenting taboo? Missing a birthday party — or sending an invoice to the absent child’s parents, depending on how you look at it.A pair of British parents are still reeling from the discovery of an invoice for £15.95 (just under $29 Canadian) in their five-year-old son Alex’s backpack. Their crime? Not informing the parents of his classmate their son would not be attending a birthday party in December.Five-year-old boy gets a bill for missing school friend’s birthday party owl.li/HxxgR http://t.co/kBcK8w7iWo—Plymouth Herald (@PlymouthHerald) January 19, 2015Julie Lawrence, the birthday boy’s mother, has defended the “fee” as necessary to recoup the costs associated with a no-show. She said Alex told her son he would attend the party and took that as proper confirmation. She said the cost covers one ticket to the “child’s party at the ski slope including snow tubing and tobogganing and lunch.”Lawrence has also threatened to take the Nash family to small claims court if they don’t pay up.Nash has said he understood the financial concerns and said it was the way Lawrence went about it that offended. They have also taken the issue up with the school, because it allowed Lawrence to place the brown envelope in Alex’s backpack, which is against school policy.So where was Alex? Out with his grandparents, whom he chose over the party when his parents realized he was double booked for the day and it was the only chance he would have to see them before Christmas.Alex’s mom, Tanya Nash, explained this to Lawrence in a Facebook exchange printed by the Plymouth Herald, the local paper that first broke the story. The ensuing Facebook debate between the two mothers now has parents around the world chiming in.VOTE: Should parents of five-year-old boy ‘invoiced’ for missing pal’s birthday party pay up? owl.li/HxOTa http://t.co/Ud8w0BkMTk—Plymouth Herald (@PlymouthHerald) January 19, 2015If Lawrence’s side of the story seems reasonable — she did have to pay for Alex when he didn’t show up after all — the Facebook conversation takes quite the turn. The moms’ fight about whether or not they had each other’s number and who was ruder in how they approached the other parent.“This is not the first time Alex has not turned up to a party that he has been invited to, either. the amicable way round this I believe would be to pay me the money and let a lesson be learnt, I hope this is agreeable,” Lawrence writes.Nash responds that she can’t think of another party Alex missed where there was a formal invite, and the pushes back against Lawrence’s tone: “Exactly what lesson would I be learning? I am not a child, so please do not speak to me like I am one. So, to answer your question, unfortunately no. This is not agreeable.”