Mayor de Blasio announced on Monday that the NYPD will no longer arrest people caught with small amounts of marijuana, issuing summonses instead . Advocates expressed cautious support.Spencer Platt / Getty Images Police Commissioner Bratton holds up a bag of oregano to demonstrate what 25 grams of marijuana looks like at a news conference to announce changes to New York's marijuana policy.NEW YORK CITY — The New York Police Department will no longer arrest people for low-level marijuana possession, Mayor Bill de Blasio and Police Commissioner William Bratton announced in a press conference on Monday. The NYPD will issue violation summonses to people caught with small amounts marijuana, instead of putting them in handcuffs and taking them to a precinct. The summonses will require people to appear in court at a later date and pay a fine. The policy, which will go into effect on Nov. 19, will not protect people who are found with more than 25 grams of marijuana, those who are smoking in public, or those caught with the drug near schools or playgrounds, the officials said. People who have open warrants, are subject to an active investigation, or do do not have proper identification could also be arrested. Speaking at the press conference, Mayor de Blasio said that the new policy is intended to refocus the attention of police officers away from petty offenses and toward more serious crimes. "When an individual gets arrested for even the smallest quantity of marijuana it hurts their chances to get a good job, to get housing, to qualify for a student loan," de Blasio said. "This policy will allow officers to continue on with their work and to put more time and energy into fighting more serious crime rather than get bogged down with an unproductive arrest."Jeny Chang for BuzzFeed / Via Drug Policy Alliance dataThe new policy could bring about a sea change in the way the city is policed. Misdemeanor-level marijuana possession accounts for a large percentage of the city's arrests, a vast majority of which happen to young black or Latino men living in poor neighborhoods. De Blasio and Bratton said that they had been working on the new policy for months, in conjunction with the city's five district attorneys and other law-enforcement officials. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance​ ​said​ Monday​ he supported the change two years ago and still does. "This policy — by diverting thousands of cases from criminal court — will also keep low-level offenders, particularly teens, from an arrest and all its attendant consequences, including a night or more in jail," he said. Some public defenders praised the policy. "This is a huge improvement," Lisa Schreibersdorf, executive director of Brooklyn Defender Services, told BuzzFeed News. "Summonses don't get you fingerprinted. This will be better for people who are vulnerable to collateral consequences, like immigrants." Still, Schreibersdorf cautioned that the policy will not fulfill its goal unless the NYPD relaxes its identification requirements for summonses. Immigrants and teenagers often do not carry valid identification, she said, which often means that they cannot be processed for a summons. She added that the policy change does not address what she called the root cause of the problem — police officers in New York routinely stopping people without probable cause. "Having summonses is an improvement for people who are already being stopped, but that doesn't mean they should be stopped in the first place," she said. "The problem, from my perspective, is that stopping people without cause is unconstitutional." Advocates also warned that the new policy could result in an increased number of arrest warrants, which are issued to people who fail to show to court for a summons. As The New York Times reported, up to a quarter of people issued summons fail to appear for their court appointments. As a consequence, there are currently 1.2 million open bench warrants in New York City — about one per every eight residents. Possession of less than 25 grams of marijuana has not been a crime in New York State since 1977 — yet he NYPD made 59,000 arrests for misdemeanor possession in 2010. Under current law, the only way to get arrested and charged with a misdemeanor for having less than 25 grams of marijuana is to display it "in public view." The legal definition of that term, however, is ambiguous. "Public view" can mean smoking pot in a public place, but it can also mean that a police officer stopped you, frisked you, and pulled a small bag of marijuana from your pocket. When the bag leaves your pocket, it has technically entered public view, and the officer can legally arrest you and charge you with a misdemeanor — even though you had less than the decriminalized amount. This broad interpretation of "public view" helped low-level marijuana possession become one of the NYPD's most commonly used arrest charges during stop-and-frisks. At Monday's press conference, Commissioner Bratton said that the NYPD has not interpreted "public view" to include marijuana removed from suspects' pockets since 2010, when then-Commissioner Ray Kelly told officers that misdemeanor charges would not be appropriate in such cases. Advocates for softer drug law enforcement policies, however, took to Twitter to disagree.absolutely false. MT @MedinaMora Bratton: NYPD hasn't arrested ppl for misdemeanor poss after asking them to empty pockets since Kelly era. VOCAL-NY@VOCALNewYorkFollow absolutely false. MT @MedinaMora Bratton: NYPD hasn't arrested ppl for misdemeanor poss after asking them to empty pockets since Kelly era. 3:41 PM - 10 Nov 14ReplyRetweetFavorite