THEY say seeing is believing, so does this creepy footage convince you that aliens are coming? Or will it take a bit more to get you spooked?It was shot in Malaysia and seems to show a huge black UFO circling over a village.3 Huge UFO crosses night sky Credit: SWNS:South West News ServiceThe spooky shots seem to show the object gliding just above the earth before zipping away.Seconds later, it turns on its axis and sails back for a second look - much to the amazement of gob-smacked villagers.You can see why they were so spooked as there's bright white light streaming out of the flying saucer.3 Bright lights appear to shine out from beneath the UFO Credit: SWNS:South West News ServiceThere's also a weird noise coming out of the UFO that sounds like a low car engine (or maybe an alien?).One observer said: "What is it, what is happening?"Another added: "It is a sky ship, it is another people."The footage was apparently taken near Kuala Krai and a woman is heard screaming as she clocks what's soaring in the skies of her neighbourhood.But others remain suspicious, claiming the alien craft is a Photoshop hoax.RELATED STORIES Wtf What on earth is it? Gruesome snap showing mystery creature found outside remote cottage baffles everyone Mist-erious! Is that a ghost? Spooky mist is caught on film in one of Britain’s most haunted pubs Extra-bizarre The Aetherius Society: a growing religion with a global following founded on extra-terrestrial experiences Video What the UFO? Bizarre fiery red UFO spotted looming over Paris in mysterious footage captured by terrified couple Wtf UFO ALERT Did these climbers just capture photos of an ALIEN SPACECRAFT hovering near the summit of Mount Washington?The video was shared by a local blogger who asked to remain anonymous for fear of upsetting the authorities in the deeply conservative country.He said: "There's no doubt what you see on the video."Everybody who saw the ship is convinced by what it is. They say they're in no doubt that it was aliens.''It's such a remote location that they hardly see aeroplanes there, definitely not space ships. But there's a big difference and anyone can tell the difference."Some people say the clip has been edited and faked but it looks real. It's clearly not a military aircraft or a commercial airliner.3 The bright light is pretty creepy Credit: SWNS:South West News Service''You cannot ever be 100% sure but if it is genuine, it is the best video of a real UFO ever seen."Apparently it was there for a new minutes before vanishing into the sky.Police have dismissed it though, insisting they had no complaints.Unconvinced? Well alien hunters think they have info which will get you thinking.