Strongest Families Institute Bell Let’s Talk and the Manitoba government donate a joint $1 million over 5 years to the Strongest Families Institute (SFI) to expand mental health services for children, youth and their families throughout Manitoba. SFI is an award-winning organization delivering evidence-based programs for children, youth and families dealing with mild to moderate mental illness and other health issues. Its unique distance coaching approach, which offers support for families day or night and in the privacy of their own homes, is also the only program of its kind in the country with a no-waitlist policy for families with children and youth. Major gifts PrairiesBear Clan Patrol Bell Let's Talk and the City of Winnipeg donate a combined $200,000 to Bear Clan Patrol, the community-based organization providing safety and belonging, mental wellness support, conflict resolution and crime prevention for vulnerable people in the community. Funding will help Bear Clan Patrol expand patrol coverage, grow its food distribution program and add a new resource for the counselling program. Major gifts PrairiesUniversité du Québec à Montréal A $500,000 donation to the Centre for Research and Intervention on Suicide, Ethical Issues and End-of-Life Practices (CRISE) at the Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM) will be used to develop a first of its kind project aimed at preventing suicide by making optimal use of today’s digital communications tools. Major gifts QuebecCHEO A $300,000 donation to CHEO, a pediatric health and research centre in Ottawa, will support the Choice and Partnership Approach (CAPA), a program to help reduce wait times and improve access to mental health care. CAPA decreases wait times and streamlines service delivery, empowering patients and families to be stewards of their own mental health through collaboration with clinicians to determine the optimum treatment plan. Major gifts OntarioMontréal organizations delivering mental health services to homeless people A $300,000 donation to Accueil Bonneau, Welcome Hall Mission and the Old Brewery Mission will support the organizations' work caring for those coping with homelessness in Montréal. Major gifts QuebecBehavioural Health Foundation A donation of $240,000 to the Behavioural Health Foundation (BHF) will support Indigenous programming as a core component of holistic residential treatment for adults and families affected by addictions and co-occurring mental health issues. Major gifts PrairiesAnna et la mer – Trois-Rivières, QC This organization works with youth aged 7-17 who have a parent or close relative suffering from a mental illness, aiming to provide its clients with the resilience they need to succeed. Bell Let’s Talk funding will enable Anna et la mer to expand the program by holding structured clinical meetings in other regions with a view to co-ordinating the intervention programs and implementing ongoing improvements. The intervention programs, which are innovative, aim to promote early intervention, coping skills and resilience. Community fund Quebec