1 That is probably some random blog someone wrote for amusement and get a bunch of gullible people to argue over 2 It could be photo shopped 3 Just because you have both genitalia does n't mean you have both reproductive organs 4 Probably 100 of the people claiming to be hermaphrodites are probably making it up to back up their argument 5 I doubt lady gaga 's managers actually found a hermaphrodite that looks reasonably like her to learn her moves , and pose as her at live concerts 6 It 's illegal for strippers to show their genitalia due to indecent exposure 7 Baby pictures do n't prove anything , there is n't any proof that it is actually her , it could be anyone 8 Getting plastic surgery on extra body parts to be removed is pretty easy , and affordable on her wage 9 Has anyone thought that this is probably just a publicity stunt \? 10 Most of these comments are hypocritical and prejudice You are ranting about people that are against lady gaga simply because you are convinced she is a hermaphrodite and that makes her special and need to be defended and protected You rant on people for insulting her , you may aswell double post that to reply to yourself 11 I do n't even understand why so many people feel obliged to defend her , what satisfaction will you gain from it what so ever \? does it make you feel better about yourself or something \? if you really want to support her go buy one of her albums or something 12 I do n't believe the bible is truth , but 'Judge not lest ye be judged' is a great quote I just have to add this in You 're saying you think it 's a great quote but you do n't believe it at all \? Then what makes it great \? 13 people should be able to do and live how they want , as long as it does n't hurt or affect anyone else , without the criticism firstly , what makes you think she does n't just LOVE the attention she gets from all this \? And secondly , you 're saying you want to live in a world without a government \? Every man for himself \? What a ridiculous comment 14 its whats on the inside that counts No , it 's not what 's on the inside that counts , that 's not how people become famous In a literal sense , you can sell various organs for some worth so it is partly true 15 who cares what she is obviously , all these people commenting care 16 fuck anyone who thinks they 're sick peopleim nnot a hermaphrodite but i know that you people are just complete ignorant pigs That 's probably the most ignorant comment I 've seen yet 17 fucking grow up you inconsiderate pricks dont take to fucking piss out of hermaphrodite 's becasue you are fucking pathetic and they cant help it and you 're 'pathetic' for taking the piss out of 'inconsiderate pricks' \? 18 By the way you sick pig who are you to judge people , you insensitive piece of crap You obviously have no respect for anyone , go and get a life ! You 're worse then him , he 's judging a celebrity , which the media does every day and no one seems to care but you 're judging him from a simple comment \? He should get a life \? what about you , you have nothing better to do then to insult people on the internet \? 19 ONE IS BORN A HERMAPHRODITE ITS A BIOLOGICAL PHYSICAL FEATURE THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH THAT umm , yes there is something wrong with that only certain species are natural and successful hermaphrodites Humans are n't able to reproduce without 2 sets of DNA 20 The only way I will believe it is if she gets on tv and says it You would n't believe it if she said it to your face \? 21 GaGa never had an interview like this No one has ever asked her anything about this obviously because it 's not suitable for the public media