Report: Clinic treating Joan Rivers made several errorsA federal report released Monday reveals that the Manhattan clinic that treated Joan Rivers made numerous serious mistakes before her death. And it confirms that a selfie had been taken of a surgeon and the comedian while she was under sedation.No names are listed in the report, but the description of that patient and the procedures she underwent match what's known about Rivers, including her age and the date of her appointment. CMS declined to say whether the patient referenced in the Yorkville Endoscopy is Rivers.New York City's medical examiner found Rivers' cause of death to be brain damage due to lack of oxygen after she stopped breathing during an endoscopy on Aug. 28. She died Sept. 4 at age 81.Among the major errors in the 22-page report, issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS):, as noted by CNN:• Failing to identify deteriorating vital signs and provide timely intervention.• Failing to record Rivers' weight, prior to the administration of medication for sedation.• Failing to consistently document the dose of Propofol, a sedative, administered.• Failing to get Rivers' informed consent for each procedure performed.• Failing to ensure that she was cared for only by physicians granted privilege in accordance with the clinic's bylaws.• Failing to abide by its own cellphone policy (the report found that a photograph was taken of a surgeon and Rivers while she was under sedation).Melissa Rivers responded to the news through her lawyers, telling USA TODAY is a statement she "is outraged by the misconduct and mismanagement. Moving forward, Ms. Rivers will direct her efforts towards ensuring that what happened to her mother will not occur again with any other patient."Yorkville Endoscopy issued a statement, too, in response to the report, which is dated Sept. 5. According to CNN, the clinic says it has already "submitted and implemented a plan of correction that addressed all issues raised. The regulatory agencies are currently reviewing the corrective plan of action and have been in regular contact with Yorkville. In addition, the physicians involved in the direct care and treatment referenced in the report no longer practice or provide services at Yorkville."CMS has given Yorkville Endoscopy until Jan. 7 to correct deficiencies to avoid losing Medicare accreditation, reports AP.