A 5-year-old boy in Torpoint, England, ended up missing a friend’s birthday party, and he did it without any advance notice. Due to his no-show at his friend’s party, the young child was actually given an invoice and billed for his nonappearance.

According to the Plymouth Herald, Derek Nash says that his son Alex was given a “child’s party no show fee” invoice for not going to a friend’s birthday party. The bill for £15.95 (approx. $25) was in his son’s school bag last week and Nash “thought it was a joke.”

The party was scheduled for before the Christmas holidays when Alex was invited to one of his Torpoint Nursery and Infant School classmate’s birthday party. It was being held at the Ski Slope and Snowboard Centre, and the Nash family indicated that Alex would be attending the party.

“She saw me and asked if Alex was coming to the party. At this time I agreed and said that Alex was looking forward to it.”

As the Metro stated, Nash informed the classmate’s mother in person that his son would be going to the party. It was after that conversation that Nash realized the family already had a family trip planned for that day.

Upon trying to cancel Alex’s acceptance to the party, Nash found no way to contact the party-thrower.

“We did not have a contact number, email or an address to let [the boy’s mother] know. So on the day of the party we asked Alex what he wanted to do – he chose to be with his grandparents.”

It was a week later that the invoice for Alex’s no-show was received. A teacher at the Torpoint Nursery and Infant School is actually the one who put the notice in the boy’s school bag, and the school has since issued an apology for their involvement in the matter.

Alex’s teacher said that she would let all staff know that giving the boy an invoice was a “breach of protocol.”

Derek Nash said he then left the school and went to visit the birthday boy’s mother since her address was now on the invoice. He let her know that he “would not be paying her the money” and that “she should have spoken to me first.”

The birthday boy’s mother has since threatened the Nash family with legal action and could possibly take them to small claims court to get the money she is owed.

As for Alex Nash and his classmate at the Torpoint Nursery? He has told his parents that his classmate won’t play with him at school now since he was a no-show to the party and the invoice was given out.

[Image via Plymouth Herald]