...

in a little Texas town, and the boy went to work everyday protecting that little town. He was a police officer, and he loved his job and that sleepy little town. The boy also love his country, and became a soldier in the National Guard. Life was good, and they were happy, but something was missing. They began to pray for a baby. Time went on, days turned to months, and months to years. 7 years to be exact. And then the news came. That boy and that girl were having a boy of their own. This is the part of the story where you come in...

On September 15, 2012, at 34 weeks, while her husband Sean was serving our country in Afghanistan, Heather Brown went to the hospital with back pain and a headache. After arriving at the hospital, Heather began having seizures caused by a massive brain bleed. The baby, John Michael Thomas Brown, was taken by emergency C-section. Heather slipped into a coma. The baby was rushed to a neighboring hospital with a NICU.

It took 72 hours to bring our first Brown home from Afghanistan. The longest 3 days of his life. Flights that were hours on end with no communication. Not knowing how his wife and son were doing. Upon arrival at Tyler Pounds Field, Sean was given a police escort to the hospital, where his tiny newborn son was. That guy may be little, but he is strong like his daddy and the doctors and nurses say he is going to be okay, and soon, this little Brown will come home too.

After seeing his son, Sean went to his wife's side, where he has been constantly for the last month. Heather is still in a coma, and the doctor's tell us she may never come out. But we know our God is in the business of miracles. We believe through the power of prayer, Heather will wake up, and we believe this Brown is coming home, too.

This family needs all the prayer, encouragement and support they can get. That can't happen without people like you. Friends like you. Please follow this story. Share this story. Please put them on your church prayer list. Please join us in this journey as God creates an amazing testimony of "Bringing Home the Browns".



Update:10/4/2012 For anyone asking about mailing cards or gifts to the family. The mailing address is PO Box 644, Gladewater, TX 75647.



There is also a link next to the picture and likes tab on our page that says helping out.



For all of our friends asking about updates on Heather. This journey is a marathon. It will take time, and we will need your constant support and prayer. As changes happen we will share it with our friends here. Thank you so much for your support and prayer!



Update:10/5/2012 John Michael Thomas Brown came home from the hospital at a little over 5 pounds and doctors are pleased with his development. He and Daddy are adjusting, and Sean tries to divide time at home with Baby John and time at the hospital with Heather.



Update:10/15/2012 It has been 1 month to date, and Heather remains in the hospital in a coma. we continue to pray for a miracle and ask you to do the same. Thank you for all the love, kindness and support y'all have given and will continue to give. God bless.

Once upon a time there was a boy and a girl. The boy loved hunting and the girl loved shoes and they fell in love and got married. They bought a little house