Martha G. Kavanaugh, the mother of Brett Kavanaugh was a Maryland district judge in 1996. In an amazing coincidence, Martha Kavanaugh was the judge in a foreclosure case in which Christine Blasey-Ford’s parents were the defendants. Now it all becomes clear. Blasey-Ford is going after Brett Kavanaugh, not because of what he did in high school. Instead, Christine Blasey-Ford is going after Brett Kavanaugh out of spite and revenge for a case rulled on by Brett Kavanaugh mother. Martha Kavanaugh, Brett’s mother was Montgomery County Circuit Court judge from 1993 until she retired in 2001. During a 1996 foreclosure case, Martha Kavanaugh ruled against the parents of Christine Blasey-Ford in a foreclosure case.

The foreclosure case against Paula K. Blasey and Ralph G. Blasey was opened on August 8, 1996. The case number is The foreclosure case against Paula K. Blasey and Ralph G. Blasey was opened on August 8, 1996. The case number is 156006V

Isn’t it kind of amazing that all the media reports today didn’t mention this little conflict of interest for Blasey-Ford?

Christine Blasey-Ford motive: Revenge – Kavanaugh’s mother ruled against parents in foreclosure case 1996

So a leftist scorned, out for revenge for her parents over a foreclosure 22 years ago is why Blasey-Ford finally came out of the closet. I guess when Brett Kavanaugh was nominated to the DC Appeals court in 2006, it wasn’t time for revenge. Now that he’s up for the Supreme Court, it’s time for Christine Blasey-Ford to avenge her parents. How pathetic.

So let’s see what we’ve learned today from the “mystery women.”

1) She’s a registered Democrat

2)

3) She’s a professor in a Palo Alto University. Palo Alto is the Silicon Valley, home of big tech and basically no conservatives

4) She’s made several donations to Bernie Sanders, the DNC and ACTBLUE.

5) She’s a bitter old woman, out for revenge because the mother of a candidate nominated for the Surpeme Court was the judge against her parents in a Maryland foreclosure case back in 1996. 1) She’s a registered Democrat2) She’s a far left Democrat activist who hates Trum 3) She’s a professor in a Palo Alto University. Palo Alto is the Silicon Valley, home of big tech and basically no conservatives4) She’s made several donations to Bernie Sanders, the DNC and ACTBLUE.5) She’s a bitter old woman, out for revenge because the mother of a candidate nominated for the Surpeme Court was the judge against her parents in a Maryland foreclosure case back in 1996.