SWNS•ALAMY Derek Nash could not believe it when his son Alex recieved the bill

Derek Nash and his partner discovered the invoice - for the sum of £15.95 - after it was slipped into their son Alex's school bag. The host of the party gave it to Alex via a teacher after he failed to show up for the get-together at a ski slope and snowboard centre in Plymouth, Cornwall. Alex's family confirmed that their son would be attending the party just before the Christmas holidays. But Mr Nash, from Torpoint, Cornwall, realised he had arranged for their daughter to go on a day trip with her grandparents. He then asked Alex if he wished to join his sister or go to the party, to which he chose to spend time with his grandparents. Bemused Mr Nash said he originally thought the invoice "was a joke", but the issue has remained unresolved and now the birthday boy's mother has threatened to take him to a small claims court. He said: "She saw me and asked if Alex was coming to the party. At this time I agreed and said that Alex was looking forward to it."

SWNS This invoice was slipped into Alex's school bag

However, after Alex had changed his mind about the party, Ms Nash realised he had no way of contacting the birthday boy's mother. "So on the day of the party we asked Alex what he wanted to do - he chose to be with his grandparents," he said. "By this time we did not have a contact number, email or an address to let [the boy's mother] know."

I would have sympathised with her about the cost of Alex not showing up, but I just can't believe the way she has gone around it Derek Nash

Alex returned to Torpoint Nursery and Infant School on January 6, but just over a week later, the family were stunned to receive the bill. Mr Nash continued: "My partner looked out for [the friend's mother] to apologise for Alex not showing up to the party, but didn't see her. "But on January 15 she looked in Alex's school bag and found a brown envelope. It was an invoice for 15.95 for a child's party no show fee. "I asked Alex's class teacher if [the child's mother] had given anything to her. She said, 'Yes, a brown envelope'. "I then visited Alex's school headteacher, who couldn't apologise enough that one of the teachers had passed this on. "She said she would remind all staff that this was a breach of protocol."

SWNS The birthday boy now no longer plays with Alex at school

He then went to visit the mother, since named as Julie Lawrence and whose address was on the invoice, and told her that he would not be paying the bill. "I told her she should have spoken to me first and not put the invoice in my son's school bag," he said. "I would have sympathised with her about the cost of Alex not showing up, but I just can't believe the way she has gone around it." The mother has since threatened the family to take the case to a small claims court, while the birthday boy will no longer play with Alex at school. Mr Nash added: "I drive all around the South West for my job and I have talked to quite a few people about this. "They're all quite incredulous that this has happened. I thought it was a joke to begin with. I am lost for words." His partner, who does not want to be named, has been in contact with the mum on Facebook and is hoping to resolve the situation.

SWNS The mother who hosted the party has since said she has no regrets over sending the invoice