Scottish people have some of the strongest stomachs in the world – but even they may struggle with a restaurant from cheese-obsessed North Korean lardball Kim Jong-Un.

The waddling dictator has already opened branches of the Pyongyang restaurant in China and Holland – with some serving delicacies such as dog-meat soup and a bottled aphrodisiac allegedly made from bears.

Next to that lot, deep fried Mars bars and a national dish made from sheep’s bowels sounds positively delicious.

Kim is alleged to be eyeing up Scotland because of his love of whisky – which is so popular in his communist dictatorship it’s sometimes used instead of money.

The podgy autocrat also admires Alex Salmond’s attempt to break free of English control last year.

While that is something that Scots might be able to get on board with, it’s debatable whether they’ll share Kim’s taste in food, with Western Pyongyang outlets serving ‘delicacies’ such as pine nut gruel.

Advertisement

Advertisement

MORE: Puppies are rescued from tiny cages in Korean dog-meat farm

MORE: Google thinks photoshopped picture of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un in drag is his younger sister

The key question may be whether Kim offers Irn Bru alongside the ginseng wine offered in other Pyongyang outlets.

Not all items will be available in Western European outlets, happily for our pets (Picture: Getty/Ben Nicholls)

Michael Madden, editor of the North Korea Leadership Watch, said Jong-un is desperate to build diplomatic ties with European countries with left-wing leanings.

‘The Scottish independence referendum catapulted Scotland into the North Korean elite’s thoughts.

‘Despite voting No’ they’d consider left-leaning Scotland to be more suitable to deal with than England. Plus, North Koreans love whisky. Tourists in North Korea are told to tip people in Scotch instead of the currency.’

One of the restaurants has already opened in Holland.

They are run in partnership with Office 39, a secretive branch of the North Korean government, which uses them as a legal way of raising overseas cash.

Mr Madden, a frequent visitor to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, added: “They are one of the few ways to experience North Korean culture without having to go there.

‘They are done like a franchise with the state renting the brand out to other Koreans to run.

‘But they tailor the menus to suit. Customers in Western Europe won’t get a plateful of dog!’