has 'floating' design - so is never plugged in upside down

Apple is preparing a radical redesign of its MacBook Air than includes just one port to allow Apple to make it even smaller.

The new design was mocked up by 9to5mac after what it claims are leaks of them machine's specs.

It is rumoured to include a single USB type C port - a new design that allows both power and other addons to work through the same connector.

The new design has a slightly narrower keyboard, and four speakers above the keyboard

One port to rule them all: The new design (left) has a single USB 3.0 port and a headphone socket, compared to the power, headphone and USB port on the current model (right)

'The 12-inch MacBook Air will be considerably smaller than the current 13-inch version, yet also slightly narrower than the 11-inch model,' says 9to5Mac's Mark Gurman.

'Sources within Apple, who have used internal prototype versions of the upcoming computer, have provided in-depth details about the machine, and our exclusive artist renditions of the revamped MacBook Air provide the first close look at Apple's first major step in mobile Mac computing since the Retina MacBook Pro launch in 2012.'

Crucially, the machine is also expected to include a Retina screen - something the current model does not.

The upcoming laptop is so thin that Apple employees are said to refer to the device as the 'MacBook Stealth' internally.

Apple's current MacBook range: The new version has a radically different design

Crucially, the machine is also expected to include a Retina screen - something the current model does not.

Late last year Apple's Phil Schiller revealed a new iMac with a high resolution retina display the firm says is the world's highest resolution.

Called the retina 5K display, it boasts 14.7 million pixels, seven times more than a HD TV.

It has 67% more pixels than 4K.

The edge of the machine measures just 5mm.

THE USB TYPE C PLUG The USB Type-C connector is a completely new design. It has been created for use with thinner, sleeker devices, such as tablets and ultrabooks. It claims to be robust enough for laptops and slim enough for smartphones. It is being built on existing USB 3.1 and USB 2.0 technologies. The plug is smaller than current laptop connectors, and more closely resembles the size of the current 2.0 Micro USB. Crucially, it will be reversible, meaning it will work whichever way it is plugged in.

The new 27‑inch iMac with Retina 5K display has four times as many pixels as the standard 27‑inch iMac display.

The firm also revealed a new version of its Mac Mini computer, selling for $499.