UPDATE, 3:39pm EST: As many readers have pointed out, the “darkest night in 500 years” actually happened in 2010. Sorry for the misniformation. But tonight/tomorrow is still the winter solstice, and the confluence of the solstice and lunar eclipse (which happened in 2010) is still pretty cool. Now go be grim tonight and crank some black metal.

Original Post:

Longtime readers of MetalSucks might be familiar with Longtime readers of MetalSucks might be familiar with my obsession with solstices . To me, the brightest and darkest days of the year are more important than any so-called holiday. They mark the passage of time and define the way we inhabit this planet, in very real, tangible, fundamental ways. They’re elemental, not dogmatic, based in cold, hard science. They’re worthy of celebration. And, of course, extreme darkness is very, very metal… as is near-infinite sunlight!

If you live in the Northern Hemisphere, the winter solstice takes place tomorrow, December 21st. For those in the Eastern time zone of the U.S. the solstice itself — the moment when the North Pole is the farthest away from the sun in the earth’s yearly journey around it — will occur at 5:44am on the morning.

But this year’s winter solstice is unlike any to take place in the past 500 years: because the moon’s light will be obscured by a lunar eclipse tonight, December 20th, we will experience the longest period of darkness of any night since nearly 500 years ago, the last time a lunar eclipse and the winter solstice synched up. The result will be an additional 72 minutes of darkness between 2:41am and 3:53am EST.

The Earth’s shadow will begin to blot out the moon at 1:32 a.m. EST (10:32 p.m. PST). During totality, when the Earth is directly between the moon and the sun, the moon will turn a rusty orange-red for 72 minutes from 2:41 a.m. to 3:53 a.m. EST (11:41 p.m. to 12:53 a.m. PST).

North Americans will have the best view of the eclipse, while those in Europe and Africa will get a partial viewing.

Now go listen to some Swallow the Sun and Insomnium and celebrate this momentous occasion of extreme darkness. METAL.

Thanks to MetalGF for the tip!