Last month, Joy Behar bashed Vice President Mike Pence and his Christian faith on her talk show “The View.” Now, it has come back to bite her in a huge way.

Breitbart reported that ABC has received over 30,000 complaints for allowing Behar to spew “anti-Christian bigotry” on her show. As of Wednesday morning, 30,588 angry viewers had called ABC to express outrage over the segment in which Behar and Sunny Hostin mocked Pence for his religious beliefs.

The two liberal hosts slammed the vice president for voicing his belief in Jesus Christ on the February 13 broadcast.

“Look, I’m Catholic, I’m a faithful person, but I don’t know that I want my vice president talking in tongues,” Hostin said.

Behar responded by saying that Pence’s talking to Jesus is not a sign of faith, but a sign of “mental illness.”

“It’s one thing to talk to Jesus. It’s another thing when Jesus talks to you. That’s called mental illness, if I’m not correct, hearing voices,” Behar said.

Media Research Center president Brent Bozell called on ABC to apologize for allowing religious bigotry to be tolerated on network television. The MRC released contact information for 14 advertisers that broadcast on ABC, as well as information on how to get in touch with the president of ABC television network.

“I am sure the advertisers of ‘The View’ will be just as appalled as I am about the anti-Christian remarks made on the show,” Bozell wrote.

Pence fired back as well by blasting ABC for allowing this kind of anti-Christian bigotry on their network.

“To have ABC maintain a broadcast forum that compared Christianity to mental illness is just wrong,” Pence said. “It is simply wrong for ABC to have a television program that expresses that kind of religious intolerance.”

Since the comments were made, ABC has not punished Behar in any way, and she has continued to spew her nonsense. Last week, Behar claimed that attendees of the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) “have a penchant for Nazis.”

SHARE this story if you think ABC should FIRE Joy Behar!