Advertisement

Keen golfers can have their very own putting paradise if they snap up this luxury island previously owned by Tiger Woods.

The island in Lake Mälaren, Sweden, was one of the homes shared by the 14-time major winner and his ex-wife, Elin Nordegren, before their six-year marriage fell apart in 2010.

The 62-acre island features a secluded villa, a hunting lodge, its very own landing strip for propeller planes as well as, of course, six tee-off areas for a custom-made golf hole.

Very private: The 62-acre island previously home to Tiger Woods and his ex-wife Elin Nordegren

Riches: The island in Lake Mälaren, Sweden, was just one of the homes shared by golfer and his ex-wife

Secluded: The island's villa, built from wood cut from the island itself, according to the estate agents

Serene: The residence on the island is apparently the only home for many miles around

Rustic: Yet the wooden construction also includes modern conveniences like a hot tub and gas barbecue

Kitted out: The kitchen, including breakfast bar, wood-burning stove and a disguised extractor fan

Welcoming: The bedroom. Tiger Woods and his wife split after his infidelity became public

Room to live: The kitchen and living room share an open plan space with the wood ceiling rising high above

It also includes a protected quay, a private ferry boat, a historic hill fort, pasture land for horses, stables and two small Skinnpälsarna islands with a water area of around 500 acres.

But potential buyers will have to bring their own clubs as the main building comes unfurnished.

Sabine Rollinger of Vladi Private Islands, who are listing the island, told Mercury Press Agency: 'This island was owned by Tiger Woods but after his divorce he doesn't need an island in Sweden any more.

'This is a unique, exclusive private island with total privacy.

'It includes a private harbour, untouched woods, beautiful lush parks, open fields, striking lake views and a tastefully designed main residence, a mini-mansion.

'Also on the island is a landing strip and six tee-off areas for golf practice.

'The secluded villa, hunting lodge and stables are located on the main island and surrounded by a very large lawn.

Log cabin: The hunting lodge offers another space away from the main house for times you want to be alone

Fore! The island includes six teeing off areas for a single custom golf hole

Neigh: These are the stables on the island which, along with the private pasture, would be great for horses

Well lit: As darkness falls, you can see the house is tastefully illuminated by a number of external lights

Is that an outside swimming pool? If so, it's an ambitious choice for Sweden, with its long, chilly winters...

A luxury yacht on the island: The protected quay catches the evening sun and it's only an hour's boat ride from the island to the Stockholm archipelago and the sights and sounds of the Swedish capital

Happy times: Tiger bought the place when married to Swede Elin





'Here you can land your private prop airplane, play soccer, do some riding or enjoy unstructured golfing.

'A hundred metres from the villa is the private, protected bay, and a 50-metre long quay that provides plenty of space for your own, and your friends' boats.

'This is the place to begin great fishing trips in your own private fishing waters, take a boat ride out to Mälaren's over 1000 islands or the beautiful archipelago of Stockholm.

'This island is also unique due to its central location as the Swedish capital is only about an hour away by boat or car, and from there you have swift access to the Stockholm archipelago.

'The property even has a historical 11th century Viking stronghold, a dramatic landscape with approximately 30 metres high rocks rising out of the lake.

'The island boasts a variety of wildlife, such as deer, hares and beavers - even elks can be seen on occasion.

'The protected location, combined with the quay's generous dimensions, make it an ideal place for private parties and outdoor dining.

'You go for a swim in Lake Mälaren, where the water reaches temperatures of up to 26C in the summer.

'Apart from the island, the property also includes the two small Skinnpälsarna islands and a water area of around two million square metres.'