Brain surgery recovery can be a gamble, but not everybody wakes up in the middle of the procedure. Surgeons don’t yet know exactly how the organ works, so it’s always a risk.

Iga Jasica, a 19-year-old Polish girl, woke up while it was happening and gave the surgeons a surprise. The reason for the surgery was to remove a tumor which had apparently been bothering her for a while. It is suspected that the surgeons may have triggered neurons which caused her to regain consciousness and the ability to hear and speak, but not the senses of sight and feeling.

It was also possible that the doctors had given her the anesthetics incorrectly. Fox News claims that investigators are looking into the reason why Jasica spent part of her brain surgery awake. The surgeons may have simply activated the right neurons despite successful administration of anesthesia.

The surprisingly premature brain surgery recovery is a rare situation, and the surgeons said the first thing she did was ask them, “How’s it going?”

Teenager wakes up while undergoing BRAIN SURGERY in Poland… and asks the surgeons how the… http://t.co/MerFal7GP1 via @MailOnline — netdog713 (@netdog713) January 3, 2015

Iga Jasica allegedly didn’t appear to wake up in pain, and didn’t sound panicked or frightened. Officials have stated that even though her brain was fully exposed, there was no danger, and her health was not in jeopardy.

The patient reportedly felt so comfortable that as she chatted with the surgeons, Jasica started talking about cats.

After her successful brain surgery recovery, Jasica told the Daily Mail about the experience.

“I can’t remember much but the doctor said he talked to me about cats, which I love. “I missed Christmas because of this operation but it is the best present I could have had as I am now feeling great.”

Spending part of brain surgery awake can be a scary situation, but this time everything turned out fine. It even led to an amusing tale of a 19-year-old girl who got rid of a brain tumor and loves cats.

[Image via The Daily Mirror]