While people on the right are busy calling liberals politically correct for objecting to the Confederate flag hanging on government property, those on the right see evil in something much, much dumber.

I see a cute dinosaur who does seem to be missing an appendage, but few kids would notice and I doubt any would see something sinister, but the mother on the other hand…

Jessica Eckerdt of Queen Creek, Arizona bought a cake for her son’s sixth birthday. She picked the dinosaur from a selection of cake patterns. When she brought the cake out to sing to her son, though, she noticed something weird: the dinosaur had three legs. Oh, and she thought the icing wrote out “666.”

“I was extremely shocked and upset to see a demonic symbol written clear as day on my six-year-old son’s birthday cake. What was supposed to be a whimsical dinosaur became something very distasteful. I was extremely surprised at Costco for allowing such an inappropriate joke be sold to an unsuspecting victim.” Source: Inquisitr.com

Now, she and some right-wing sources are convinced that it’s either of the devil or a bad joke. One piece of evidence, they claim, is that the Costco is located in Superstition Springs. Another, according to them, is that Costco has 666 stores. They actually have 672, now. Maybe they had 666 when the cake was made, but regardless, it sounds good.

Now, Costco has pulled that particular cake pattern off the shelves but we’re the weirdos for even considering that Confederate flags might be inappropriate in, oh, all settings.

Here’s the video:

Some (but not all) Christians claim that 666 is the number of the beast, which comes from the Book of Revelation in the New Testament. Eckerdt could be a general nut or she could suffer from a phobia called hexakosioihexekontahexphobia, which is the fear of 666. Too bad she had to ruin her son’s birthday over her phobia or superstition. Too bad there are enough people around who buy into it to make it a national story and to make Costco pull a completely innocent cake off the shelves.

Featured image via YouTube video screen capture.

