SPECIAL NOTICE TO READERS, Monday, September 10, 2007:

The web site "Snopes.com" has claimed today that the story below is FALSE. I stand-by the story.



The owners and publishers of Snopes.com are well known jews who would lie at the drop of a hat to protct their tribe. Since it is jew bankers who have the most to gain by perpetrating the AMERO switch outlined in the story below, the kikes at Snopes have every reason to spin this story; to help their rich jew pals deceive!



I personally vouch for this story and stand-by every world of it no matter how many filthy jews come out of the woodwork to say otherwise. I caught them and they know it.



So upset are the powers-that-be over this expose, they actually CLOSED THE DENVER MINT to the public so they can move the AMEROS out without being seen!



This from the Denver Mint Web Site:





My story has caused a huge amount of fallout for the folks trying to perpetrate this AMERO switch and they are doing everything possible to spin it, cover it up and say it isn't so.



-- Hal Turner





"THE AMERO" IS REAL;

I HAVE ONE TO PROVE IT! UNITED STATES, CANADA AND MEXICO TO BE MERGED INTO SINGLE NEW ENTITY NAMED NORTH AMERICAN UNION! By: Hal Turner



Three weeks ago, I published a brief snippet on the front page of my web site reporting the governments of the US Canada and Mexico are conspiring in secret to merge the three nations into a new entity called the North American Union.



There has been much talk of this on various internet blogs for over a year. Most of those blogs have been smeared as "conspiracy theorists" and have been largely ignored by the main stream.



What prompted my interest in the issue was money: I was sent professional images of actual AMERO coins by someone in the US Treasury! The person included a note saying they like my radio show and are frightened by what's been going on in secret within our government.



This Treasury Department person was outraged that our country was beginning to coin money as part of a merger that would do away with our country, via a merger the American public knew nothing about!



When I got the professional images of the AMERO coin, I was finally intrigued enough to make mention of it on my web site. My site has gotten over 20 Million visits in the last couple years and is becoming more popular because of the brutal honesty and timely delivery of news that folks don't find elsewhere. This story about AMERO coins would fit my niche of breaking news, so I ran a snippet of a story.



As part of my report, I included the professional images sent to me by the Treasury person. They appear below:











I also mentioned that very pricey "Collector Proofs" of the coins were also being Minted in Silver and Gold, and I posted an image of one such Silver Proof, shown below:







The story went on to say that the US Government has intentionally overspent itself for the purpose of irreversibly Bankrupting the country. The idea is that they will drive the country into economic failure, then when millions of Americans are panicking at the prospect, offer them a solution of merging the three countries as "the only possible way" to avoid losing everything.



They will force Canada into the merger by telling them the US currency they hold and rely upon will be worthless and the only way Canada can even hope to salvage any of the funds is to join the NAU.



They will sell it to the Mexican people by saying it will instantly improve their buying-power and quality of life.



In reality, the value of the US and Canadian dollars will be significantly reduced to counter the worthless peso being absorbed. People in the US and Canada will suffer great financial loss while Mexicans will see significant gain. In the meantime, the financial elite and the politicians they own will make out like bandits!



That's the reason politicians are doing this: to get rich for themselves and their financial elite pals.



The folks in power within government and their buddies in Banking and finance know that in any currency switch, some lose big while others gain big. Really big! In fact, folks with foreknowledge of such a switch can make hundreds-of-millions, perhaps even billions for themselves overnight. Those without foreknowledge (common folks like you and me) usually end up being wiped out.



INSTANT, FULL BLAST "SPIN"



I published the images and the small story and went to bed. I had no idea what my little story would do.



Within a matter of hours, there was a full blown effort to discredit my story and the images as fake.



I was accused of lying. I was accused of having "photoshopped" the images by creating them in Adobe Photoshop.



Within a couple days, a basic web site for AMERO "FANTASY COINS" was erected on the internet and word of that site was spread quickly. The site contained the same images as I had run on my front page, so clearly whatever "SPIN" was happening was being driven by others who also had the professional images.



There was intense effort to claim the whole idea of these coins was a fantasy and there was absolutely no truth to them whatsoever. That effort to "spin" the story out of existence worked. Folks quickly lost interest. I did not.



Get me the real thing by any means necessary



I reached out to the person in the Treasury who first alerted me to the coins. That person told me "The shit hit the fan around here when your story ran." The person went on to say "They told everyone in all the Mints that anyone revealing information about the AMERO would be fired and perhaps even criminally prosecuted for endangering national security."



Ahhhh yes, the grand old catch-all of national security. When they wheel that one out, you just KNOW they're pissed off about something!



I told the Treasury person that the only way anyone might believe this is happening, is for me to actually get one of the coins. The Treasury guy balked. He said "there's no way to get one without stealing it."



I though about that for a moment. . . . . then decided that if my government is concealing the actual Minting of coins for a new sovereign entity which may end up with power over me, but which I haven't been told about, then that government deserves whatever gets done to it.



I told the Treasury person to get me an Amero by any means necessary - even if that meant stealing it. The Treasury person said it would require them to think about for awhile and if it could be done, I would get one in the mail.



I waited. And waited. Frankly, after about three weeks, I lost track of the story -- until today. A real AMERO coin arrived at my home in the mail this afternoon!



The real thing arrives! Today, I received a single 20 AMERO coin in the mail. A real coin. Real metal, really MINTED by the US Mint in Denver, CO. The proof that it is being Minted in Denver is that the coin is stamped with the Mint Identity letter "D" on the bottom right of the side with the eagle just like regular US coins already in circulation today!



Click each image to enlarge it, CLICK TWICE TO SUPER ENLARGE IT!!























Please note the letter "D" stamped below and to the right of the Planet earth at the bottom right of the coin in this photo. That "D" stands for the United States Mint at Denver, CO.



VIDEO!

So that you can see this is a real, metal coin, I have made a small video of me holding the coin, turning it, then dropping it on a wooden table top so you can hear what it sounds like when it hits.

Download the Windows Media Video here



I WAS RIGHT!

I stand vindicated. All those who claimed I fabricated the images now owe me an apology. All those who claimed these were "fantasy" coins can now explain why anyone in their right mind would spend Millions of dollars to create the rare and expensive professional dies and plates necessary for minting coins that will not be issued?



The simple truth is, the coins are real. The plan to merge the US, Canada and Mexico is real. Our government is lying about it and the fact they are minting money at the Denver Mint bearing the name of Union of North America is proof.



So America, Canada and Mexico, our governments are betraying us and planning to merge our countries without our knowledge or consent, or by financial disaster they bring-on intentionally. What are we going to do about it?



For my part, the Second Amendment comes to mind.



-- Hal Turner









TV NETWORK CNBC CONFIRMS: U.S. DOLLAR, CANADIAN DOLLAR AND MEXICAN PESO TO BE REPLACED BY THE "AMERO" THOSE WHO ARE DELUDED INTO THINKING THESE ARE "FANTASY COINS" NEED TO GET THEIR HEADS OUT OF THEIR ASS!







Permission to reproduce this page, in its entirety, is GRANTED on condition that it be reproduced in full with the following credit: "Reproduced with permission of The Hal Turner Show, www.HalTurnerShow.com " CNN's "Lou DObbs" Reports President Bush Signed Formal Agreement to End United States as we know it! Reports our country will become part of the North American Union including Mexico and Canada!





I TOLD YOU THAT "AMEROS" WERE BEING MINTED; MANY ACCUSED ME OF LYING. . . . . NOW, A U.S. STATE HAS BEGUN ISSUING "NORTH AMERICAN UNION" DRIVER LICENSES! North Carolina has become the first U.S. state to place the logo of the yet-to-be-formed "North American Union" on its official state identification. North Carolina has issued a Driver License bearing the logo of the North American Union.



Gee, now all the morons who screamed at me claiming the AMERO coins were a "fantasy coin" can now go scream at WorldNetDaily too! Maybe you can accuse them of reporting about a "fantasy" driver license? Why not; after all, they have photos of the NAU-ready driver license the same way I had photos of the NAU coins.



Maybe, when everything is in place and you wake up one morning to find America merged into Canada and Mexico, maybe THEN you'll realize I was telling the truth. Until then, stay happy with your head shoved firmly up your ass. You seem to like keeping it there even when the truth is right in front of you.

Click Here











© © 2007 - All text, headlines and commentary on this web site as well as the content of my radio show and internet webcasts, the sounds, inflections and intonations of my human voice and my appearance, image and likeness are all COPYRIGHT 1962 - 2007, Harold C. Turner; all Rights reserved.