Ok. I’m really upset over this.

Chili’s is one of my favorite restaurants, but I may need to seriously rethink my dining options.

Chili’s restaurants in two states have apparently joined with Planned Parenthood to raise funds for the infanticide mill.

Earlier this week the Planned Parenthood abortion business affiliate in Indiana and Kentucky posted a promotional code its supporters could use to request that Chili’s donate 15% of the pre-tax meal purchase to benefit the abortion corporation.

So according to the voucher, if you take this voucher to a Chili’s restaurant in one of the listed locations, 15% of the cost of your order would go to fund Planned Parenthood.

How lovely.

This is not the first time that Chili’s has been involved in potential donations to the Planned Parenthood abortion business. A Chili’s restaurant in California initially set up a fundraiser for a local Planned Parenthood abortion clinic This is not the first time that Chili’s has been involved in potential donations to the Planned Parenthood abortion business. A Chili’s restaurant in California initially set up a fundraiser for a local Planned Parenthood abortion clinic but eventually cancelled it after pro-life advocates complained

California.

Of course.

According to a spokesperson for Chili’s parent company, Brinker International, Inc., “The event was canceled after hearing growing concerns from our guests.” Management of the Natomas Chili’s received numerous calls, as the Sacramento community expressed concerns about Chili’s restaurant donating money to Planned Parenthood, which performs over 330,000 abortions every year. Wynette Sills, a local pro-life advocate who had been monitoring the situation, told LifeNews today, “The Chili’s fundraiser for Planned Parenthood was brought to my attention … the night before the event. By the next morning, Chili’s decided to cancel the Planned Parenthood fundraiser due to guest complaints.”

So the event was cancelled, in that instance, but the Chili’s Truxel Road location felt they should do something to try and prevent any nasty litigation from Planned Parenthood, so they tossed them a $200 donation.

That was about $201 too much.

If you want to let the Chili’s corporation know just how disgusted you are with their pairing with Planned Parenthood on any level, go If you want to let the Chili’s corporation know just how disgusted you are with their pairing with Planned Parenthood on any level, go here.