A robotic vacuum cleaner "attacked" a South Korean woman while she slept by attempting to suck up the hair on her head.

The woman, a 52-year-old resident of Changwon who has not been named, was awoken by the pain and, unable to extricate herself from the robot, called the fire department for help.

She was eventually freed by paramedics, escaping serious injury but losing several strands of hair.

It required two paramedics to remove her hair from the machine's nozzle, Korea Biz Wire reported .

The incident, which took place on January 3, highlighted the potential risk of this type of accident in South Korea, where sitting and sleeping on the floor is common practice.

The vacuum only stopped running more than a minute after initially ingesting the woman's hair.

She was still unable to free herself from the vacuum and made a "desperate rescue request" call to 119, South Korea's emergency telephone number.

Robotic vacuum cleaners are equipped with sensors allowing them to clean surfaces by detecting dirt while avoiding obstacles such as stairs, people and cables - but not, seemingly, human hair that is still attached.

Too close to home

While a person's home is his or her castle, it can also the source of seriously painful and embarrassing accidents that require medical attention.

Doctors in Saudi Arabia got quite a shock when they x-rayed a toddler and saw that he had swallowed a metallic SpongeBob SquarePants pendant.

Doctors couldn't believe their eyes when they saw this familiar face on the x-ray

The item, seen in stunning detail in the image above, was removed from the 16-month-old baby boy's oesophagus without complications.

A closer look at the hairball doctors removed Picture: EUROPICS

A teen in Kyrgyzstan was rushed to hospital unable to eat and when doctors cut open the 18-year-old's swollen stomach they discovered this giant hairball, which had formed over many years of the girl compulsively eating her own hair and locks she picked up off the floor.

Statistically speaking, most British people are more likely to be injured at home than anywhere else.

Don't whatever you do, let the kids anywhere near a trampoline, with the device accounting for around half of all domestic sports injuries requiring hospital treatment among children. Safety experts say children jumping on one with an adult or a crowded trampoline, are the most likely to end in tears and a trip to an A&E unit.

Barbequing at home can cause unfortunate accidents, with a quarter of us admitting to cooking with one, that is operating a large open flame, while drunk. Gazebos, wooden furniture and sheds are often accidentally set alight in the warmer months, safety experts say. Tipsy grillers could explain the 2,000 individuals admitted to A&E units each year with barbeque-related injuries.

Depending on the damage, it seems some of us nurse our wounds in silence.

Around a third of UK adults will feel more than a slight ache or pain as a direct result of bedroom antics, with carpet burns, cricked necks and bruised shoulders among the nation's most common sex injuries.

For more stories, like the Telegraph's Facebook page by clicking on the link below: