



Return to Main Page

Reed Introduces Legislation to Register Handguns

Thursday, February 24, 2000

Groups Supporting Handgun Registration



Summary



How would it work?

Sign an on-line petition supporting handgun registration



WASHINGTON, DC -- Stating that "the police should not be limited in their ability to track down criminals," Senator Jack Reed (D- RI) today introduced legislation to require the registration of all handguns. The Handgun Safety and Registration Act is meant to reduce illegal gun trafficking by providing for more efficient tracing of handguns used in crimes and tougher penalties for those who sell guns to illegal purchasers. The law will create an on-line database of all registered handguns which can be easily accessed by federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.



Reed's goal is to reduce the number of handguns that end up in the possession of criminals. The bill would require registration of all handguns, including those currently in private possession, and would make it a felony for any person to transfer a handgun to another individual without prior law enforcement approval. Background checks would be performed on all primary and secondary transfers of handguns, including retail sales, gun shows, Internet sales and all private sales.



Reed stated, "This bill will limit criminals' access to guns. Background checks will finally be performed on all handgun sales. Before a handgun owner sells a gun without registering it, they will be forced to think hard about the crime they are about to commit and the ten years they may spend in prison."



Reed's legislation has been endorsed by Handgun Control, Inc., the Violence Policy Center, the NAACP, the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence and Physicians for Social Responsibility.



The legislation was introduced in response to law enforcement officials' complaints that the methods available for tracing handguns used in crimes are extremely inefficient and provide criminals an advantage over the police.



Currently when a gun is recovered after a crime, a state or local law enforcement agency must contact the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) with the name of the manufacturer and the serial number of the handgun. The ATF in turn contacts the manufacturer, which provides the name of the wholesale or retail dealer to whom the handgun was sold. ATF then contacts the dealer to obtain the name of the individual or another retail dealer who purchased the handgun. This often leads to a dead end. If the individual handgun owner has sold the gun to another person in a private sale, there is no way for law enforcement to follow the path of the handgun.



Reed's legislation would make the process more efficient for local law enforcement officials by providing access to a national on-line database of registered weapons.



Reed stated, "Without restricting in any way the possession or sale of hunting rifles or shotguns used by law-abiding sportsmen, this legislation will give law enforcement officials the tools to conduct faster and more reliable tracing of handguns used in crime, and prevent handguns from falling into criminal hands in the first place."



The legislation will add handguns to the successful federal weapons registration system already in place under the 1934 National Firearms Act (NFA). The NFA requires registration of all machine guns, short-barrel shotguns and short-barrel rifles, silencers, bombs, grenades, and other specialized weapons. The NFA is administered by the Department of the Treasury's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF).



The legislation will face significant opposition from gun control opponents.



"I am under no illusion," Reed stated, "that this legislation will be approved by this Congress or next Congress. Movement on gun control always has been a long and labored process. It was not until 1968, five years after the assassination of John F. Kennedy with a mail-order rifle, that Congress limited that type of gun sale and set up a dealer licensing system. By then, Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr. had been assassinated by gunmen. The 1968 Gun Control Act was the first major gun control legislation in 30 years. But we must begin the process to create a law that Americans overwhelmingly believe is necessary."



A Time/CNN poll in July of 1999 found that 76 percent of Americans support having the federal government require that each handgun be registered.



A summary of the legislation is attached.



-End-





Groups Supporting Senator Reed's

Handgun Safety and Registration Act

[Back to the Top]

Mary Leigh Bleck, President, Million Mom March

"This will help stem the flood of handguns into the illegal market, where kids and criminals have easy access to them. We thank you for your courage and leadership in helping to reform America's guns laws, and we look forward tow orking with you on this historic effort."

Mrs. Sarah Brady, Chair, Handgun Control, Inc.



"It's about time Congress considers legislation like the Handgun Safety and Registration Act of 2000 to require the registration of handguns in this country. For far too long in America, too many gun crimes have gone unsolved and murderers are getting away with murder because law enforcement doesn't have a clear paper trail to follow. Requiring handguns to be registered - like we register cars - would help law enforcement officers do their jobs, solving crimes."



"I commend Senator Reed for sponsoring the Handgun Safety and Registration Act and hope that Congress will listen to what the majority of law enforcement groups and Americans are saying and quickly pass this important legislation."



Mark Pertschuk, Legislative Director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence



"Firearms registration and licensing is the single most important thing Congress can do to protect children from gun violence. Senator Reed should be congratulated for his courage and his vision on this critical issue."



Kristen Rand, Director of Federal Policy at the Violence Policy Center



"Senator Reed's legislation brings a complicated and cumbersome handgun tracing system out of the dark ages and into the 21st Century with instant on-line access. By utilizing an existing registration system, this proposal would prove to be the most cost effective and efficient system to register America's arsenal of 60 million handguns. We must match the level of sophistication of crimes in this country with a modernized tracking system."



Arinn Dixon, Associate Director, Physicians for Social Responsibility



"Physicians for Social Responsibility applauds Senator Reed's critical efforts toward preventing gun violence in this country and emphatically endorses the provisions outlined in the "Handgun Safety and Registration Act." His actions show the American public that lawmakers are concerned enough about our nation's epidemic of gun violence to take significant, preventative action."

[Back to the Top]

Summary of the Handgun Safety and Registration Act of 2000

[Back to the Top]



Adds handguns to the list of weapons registered by the Secretary of the Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF), under the National Firearms Act (NFA), which currently covers machine guns, short-barrel shotguns, short-barrel rifles, silencers, bombs, grenades, and other specialized weapons. [Subsection 2(a)]



Requires all handguns, including those currently in private possession, to be registered with ATF within one year of enactment. If a handgun is transferred to another individual during the one-year transition period, the bill requires the handgun to be registered prior to the transfer. [Subsection 2(f)]



Imposes federal law enforcement background checks on all handgun transfers, including both primary and secondary transfers. For all NFA weapons, ATF conducts background checks through the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), the Treasury Enforcement Communications System (TECS), and the National Law Enforcement Tracking System (NLETS).



To ensure compliance with the Handgun Safety and Registration Act, the bill requires the Secretary to take measures to inform the public of the requirements of the Act, such as public service announcements. [Subsection 2(h)]



Requires ATF to share handgun registration data with local, state, and federal law enforcement officials to enhance tracing capabilities (exempts handgun registration information from the disclosure restrictions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, of which the NFA is a part). [Subsection 2(e)]



Imposes a tax of $5 on handgun registration and transfers, rather than the $200 tax imposed on most NFA weapons. [Subsections 2(b) and 2(f)(1)]



Imposes a $50 tax on the making of a handgun, rather than the $200 tax imposed on the making of most NFA weapons. [Subsection 2(c)]



Permits the continued importation of handguns by excluding handguns from the general prohibition on importation of NFA firearms under section 5844 of the NFA.

[Subsection 2(d)]



Only required participation by state and local law enforcement is the Chief Law Enforcement Officer's completion of the "Law Enforcement Certification" portion of ATF registration or transfer form (as currently required for all NFA weapons). State and local law enforcement agencies are not required to administer the registration program or send forms to ATF. On a voluntary basis, they may choose to provide ATF registration documents to the public.



To further ensure that registration and transfer forms are readily available to the public, the bill requires ATF to post forms on the Internet in a downloadable format, and to make forms available to state and local law enforcement agencies, the U.S. Postal Service, and regional offices of ATF and other Treasury Department bureaus. [Subsection 2(g)]



Authorizes such appropriations as may be necessary to enable ATF to administer the new handgun registration and background check provisions in the bill. [Subsection 2(i)] [Back to the Top]

How would it work?

[Back to the Top]



The handgun owner (the registrant) obtains an ATF registration form and FBI fingerprint form FD-258, either from his or her local Chief Law Enforcement Officer, by mail from ATF, at a U.S. Post Office, or from a regional ATF/Treasury Department facility.



The registrant fills out the registration form and affixes a 2x2 inch photograph of himself taken within the past year.



The registrant takes the form to his or her Chief Law Enforcement Officer, who completes the "Law Enforcement Certification" portion of the form.



The registrant completes FBI fingerprint card Form FD-258. Fingerprints must be taken by a person qualified to do so and must be clear, unsmudged and classifiable.



A check or money order for $5 is made payable to ATF by the registrant.



The registrant sends all completed forms, accompanying materials, and tax payment to:

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms

P.O. Box 73201

Chicago, IL 60673



If application is approved, the original of the form with the canceled stamp affixed, showing approval, will be returned to the applicant. Otherwise, the tax will be refunded and ATF will contact the registrant regarding abandonment of the handgun.



Transferring a handgun



Transfer procedures are similar to the registration process described above, except that the transferee completes the reverse of the transfer form, has the Chief Law Enforcement Officer complete the "Law Enforcement Certification," and attaches photos and fingerprint data.