b"Many of the nation's small and medi urnsize cities have been desegregated, As one lawyer put it, only the tough ones are left: the major Northern and Western cities, with their vast black ghet toes surrounded by rings of largely white suburbs. In a place like New York or Los Angeles, it would be physically im possible to devise a busing plan that could integrate most schools within the city limits.\n\nExperts agree that only a metropolitan areawide solution could solve the prob lem, but that is now barred in most cases, Detroit, whose schools are 82 percent black, illustrates the impact of that decision. The city's current desegregation plan involves only 112 out of 280 schools, and more than half of the untouched schools are virtually all black.\n\nAround the country in 1974, the last year for which figures are available, 60 percent of black youngsters still attended predominantly black schools. As long as the Detroit decision stands, those figures are likely to stand.\n\nIn recent cases involving Dayton and other cities, the Supreme Court has stressed the concept that, to be illegal, segregation has to be intentional. Moreover, it has directed judges to measure the amount of incremental segregation caused by intentional acts and to approve only those remedies that correct the extra damage.\n\nCivil rights lawyers are still. unsure whether these rulings will mean a retreat from the Denver decision. Nathaniel Jones, general counsel of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, is convinced that all Northern districts have perpetuated segregation through intentional acts, such as the drawing of school boundaries, voluntary transfer plans or segregated housing practices. But at the least; civil rights forces face a more difficult and costly job in proving not only that segregation exists but that it was intentional.\n\nMeanwhile, Congress has passed an amendment that forbids the Department of Health, Education and Welfare to order the use of busing to desegregate the schools. It is a sign of the times that the leading sponsors, Senators Thomas F. Eagleton of Missouri and Joe Biden of DelAware, are liberal Democrats from states where busing is an emotonal issue.\n\nBusing is unpopular for many reasons. Some parents say they fear that their children will be unsafe or get an inferior education; many parents and children say they sincerely prefer the neighborhood school concept; the comments of some are racist. In Louisville, half the white students and onequarter of the blacks said they would prefer to attend school only with their own race."