Multiple shots can be heard - in two separate volleys of gunfire with a pause in the middle

The individual who made the recording has remained anonymous but handed tape over to the FBI

Video messaging firm confirmed today the tape where shots appear to ring out in the background was filmed at 12:02:14 PM (CDT) on August 9

A video texting service confirmed today that an audio recording - which appears to contain the sound of shots fired by Officer Darren Wilson when he killed unarmed Michael Brown - is authentic.

Chaim Haas, head of communications at Glide, verified the tape recorded by an unnamed individual in Ferguson, Missouri on August 9.

An estimated 11 shots are heard to ring out in the background of the recording with a brief but significant pause between the first seven shots and the last volley of four.

Glide released a lengthy statement on their website today which said the user had been live video-messaging with a friend when the gunshots that killed Michael Brown were caught in the background audio.

Scroll down for video

Glide, an app which provides a real-time video texting service, said on Thursday that the audiotape was genuine and that it was now in the hands of the FBI

The statement continued: 'Because Glide is the only messaging application using streaming video technology, each message is simultaneously recorded and transmitted, so the exact time can be verified to the second. In this case, the video in question was created at 12:02:14 PM (CDT) on Saturday, August 9th.'

Officer Darren Wilson shot dead Michael Brown on August 9. On a new audio at least ten shots can be heard

Glide confirmed to MailOnline today that the FBI had been in touch with them regarding the audio recording.

The start-up business also said in the statement that it was proud of their app user for turning over the video message to the FBI investigation.

Experts who have listened to the audio have said it could prove damning for Officer Wilson.

In the audio, the unidentified man is heard telling someone, 'You’re so pretty' then 11 gunshots crack in the background - seven in one volley, followed a pause and then a final burst of four.

Lopa Blumenthal, the attorney for the unidentified man who recorded the alleged gunfire nearby said that she believed the audio shows that Officer Wilson had a clear 'point of contemplation' while pulling the trigger and aiming at Brown.

'He was in his apartment, talking to a friend on a video chat,' said Ms Blumenthal.

'He heard loud noises, and at the time he didn't even realize the import of what he was hearing until afterwards, and it just happened to have captured 12 seconds of what transpired outside of his building.'

A police expert also said that the recording could cause problems for Officer Wilson who is on leave from the force while a federal investigation is carried out.

'There sounds like a pause in it (the audio). And when you hear that pause it brings some concern,' said retired Chief Deputy U.S. Marshall Matthew Fog after listening on CNN.

'It is very significant, because if you have a pause there it means somebody had time to think and then fire again.'

If the audio is genuine it calls into question the version of events that Officer Wilson and the Ferguson police force have claimed occurred on August 9.

The medical examiner of behalf of the Brown family released this autopsy drawing which revealed Brown had been shot six times including once in the head

At least two autopsies performed on Michael Brown have concluded he died after being shot six times by Wilson after being pulled over by the officer, including a fatal 'kill shot' to the top of his head.

Numerous witnesses, including Brown's friend Dorian Johnson, claim that Wilson opened fire after bungling the opening of his squad car door, causing the teen to run before turning back to face the officer with his hands raised saying 'don't shoot'.

Johnson then alleged that Wilson continued to fire on the 18-year-old.

Photographs surround the casket of Michael Brown before the start of his funeral at the Friendly Temple Missionary Baptist Church in St Louis on Monday. The unarmed teen was killed on August 9

Ferguson police and friends of Officer Wilson contend that Brown engaged in a scuffle with Wilson when the officer pulled him and Johnson over, tried to grab his weapon and then run towards him, leaving him no choice but to fire.

Indeed in recent days reports had emerged stating that Wilson, 28, was badly beaten and left with serious facial injuries following the fatal shooting in the St Louis suburb, including an eye socket fracture.

But CNN reported last Thursday that although the officer was taken to a hospital with a badly swollen face following the shooting on August 9, x-rays came back negative for any serious injury.

Earlier reports had claimed that the officer was almost knocked unconscious by Brown's blows, according to the source.

Last week, Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson said Wilson had suffered swelling to the side of his face but gave few details of the injuries.

Wilson, a six-year veteran of the Ferguson force with a clean record, has not been arrested or charged with any crime.

He is on paid leave pending the outcome of the investigation and is under 24-hour guard after death threats were aimed at him.

Wilson is 'traumatized, scared for his life and his family' along with being deeply concerned that a grand jury, which met for the first time on Wednesday, will make an example out of him, the source told Fox.

Michael Brown's funeral was held on Monday at a St Louis church in front of thousands of mourners.

Lesley McSpadden, mother of Michael Brown, is overwhelmed by grief as she approaches the casket of her son at the beginning of his funeral at Friendly Temple Missionary Baptist Church



