Which is why American seniors need to prepare themselves for what lies ahead in 2019 and beyond, RIGHT NOW.

And fortunately, there is now REAL HOPE …

A completely natural medicine science is pointing to as THE SOLUTION to surviving the coming epidemic .

In fact, this unique treatment has already shown it can wipe out some of the deadliest drug-resistant superbugs on the planet

It’s a medically verified, oral immune booster known as AC-44 .

And the more scientists study it, the more they’re amazed by the results…

For starters… AC-44 has been scientifically verified to be 100 times more powerful than some of the most popular antibiotics available .

To demonstrate this, researchers at the University of London put AC-44 to the test against the most antibiotic resistant strain of staph infection known to man…

A “superbug” known as MRSA that kills tens of thousands of patients in UK and US hospitals every year…

This infection swats away antibiotics like a gorilla shooing a fly.

That’s why researchers were stunned when lab studies showed AC-44 can kill the deadly infection in just weeks .

Giving new hope to millions around the world.

How is it able to achieve such unheard of results? By doing something antibiotics simply can’t …

AC-44 is able to completely shut down superbugs’ ability to grow and spread throughout your body on a cellular level…

Weakening the virus…so your immune system can finally keep up.

But is AC-44 powerful enough to halt the spread of Mexican “Blood Flu?”

Thank God —YES!

In fact, when AC-44 was specifically tested on the Mexican “Blood Flu” the results were amazing.

Lab studies show that…

AC-44 is able to kill the Mexican “Blood Flu” virus in less than 6 hours

Yes, one of the most feared and drug-resistant superbugs on the planet can be wiped out in mere hours .

So why haven’t you heard of it?

Why on Earth aren’t they express shipping palettes of AC-44 to hospitals around the country?

Because the more scientists study it, the more they find it can do.It’s not just “Blood flu,” this natural breakthrough is being proven effective against some of the most deadly and common diseases of our time...

Which is why big pharma executives are willing to risk a pandemic to keep a lid on it and protect their profits…

Studies show it can slash both diastolic and systolic blood pressure, lower cholesterol and even wash away deadly artery plaque.

But that’s only the beginning…

Research shows it can destroy infections, germs and bacteria of all kinds…

Scientists at Bringham Young University found that AC-44 kills nearly 100% of the rhinovirus responsible for common colds and flu.

They also found it’s 90%-100% effective against both the Herpes and Polio viruses.

It’s so strong it’s been used to ward off things like gangrene, the plague, and cystic fibrosis .

But here’s where Big Pharma is really threatened…

It’s even being used against some of the deadliest cancers in the world .

Studies show it can slash lung cancer risk nearly in half…

It can destroy deadly glioblastoma brain cancer cells by the millions…

And it’s also being used to prevent prostate, breast, stomach, rectal and colon cancer .

In fact, AC-44 is so promising that as we speak… Big Pharma is in the process of synthesizing this natural miracle into a pill they hope to sell for billions in profit.

Which is exactly why they don’t want the public to know that there’s a natural version available RIGHT NOW .

It couldn’t be more obvious…

In order to protect yourself and your family from the deadly Mexican “Blood Flu”…

As well as skyrocket your immune system to fend off cold, flu and deadly staph infections…

Or even fight some of the deadliest cancers ever recorded…

You have to get your hands on a life-saving supply of AC-44 .

And you have to do it RIGHT NOW .

Shortages of this natural breakthrough are already being reported around the world…

And when the Mexican “Blood Flu” explodes in 2019, those shortages will surely skyrocket .

Meaning you and your loved ones could find yourself empty-handed and unprotected at the worst possible time.

That’s why I want to provide you with everything you need to obtain your very own personal supply of AC-44 immediately .

Where to find it… and the most potent source.

You’ll discover every single life-saving detail inside Forbidden Miracles: Natural Healing Secrets to the World’s Deadliest Diseases

A 504 page book personally compiled by the health researchers at the Institute for Natural Healing …

And in a minute, you’ll discover how you can receive a bound and printed copy absolutely FREE .

Inside you’ll find full details on how to protect yourself and your family from the Mexican “Blood Flu” using AC-44…

But that’s not the only thing you’ll learn about today because…

The Mexican “Blood Flu” is FAR from the only threat facing American seniors in 2019.

In fact, you face one that’s arguably bigger.

A mainstream medical “industrial complex” that’s actively ignoring natural cures and treatments to some of America’s most deadly and debilitating diseases.

Why is this happening?

Because the American medical system is more concerned with profit than patients…

Last year alone, American pharmaceutical companies pocketed a mind-blowing $458 billion .

That’s more than double drug sales in China, Russia, Brazil and India put together!

And they’ll do anything to protect their money.

Which means silencing natural alternatives with the power to stop their endless cycle of dangerous prescriptions…

Because to them, a cured patient is no longer a paying customer.

Which is why mainstream medicine desperately doesn’t want you to hear what I’m about to tell you…

There are currently 5 new natural treatments you can have today with the power to reverse or even cure America’s most deadly and debilitating diseases

A secret breakthrough that kills 10,000 times more cancer cells than standard methods alone, used by an underground network of American oncologists. The brand new “Sabin Technique” that completely reverses arthritis, eliminates pain and repairs damaged joints . It’s so powerful it’s even been shown to reverse paralysis! Rare Chinese “Acetyl Moss” that blows away top-selling Alzheimer’s drugs and improves memory function by 460% . (Supplies are limited but we’ll tell you how to secure your very own.) The liquid Israeli cardio solution that reverses heart disease and clears clogged arteries 5 times better than any prescription . (And tastes delicious!) The simple solution for reversing type II diabetes in as little as 8 weeks that’s stunning European scientists. (It tricks your body into creating its own insulin again!)

Across America, doctors have been raided, black-listed and even jailed for promoting the same type of natural alternative treatments we’re about to expose…

But at INH we’ve realized there is strength in numbers …

Which is why we’ve developed a vast network of 280,000 independent medical researchers, doctors and like-minded individuals like you.

And just like we’ve been tracking the spread of the Mexican “Blood Flu” and the AC-44 breakthrough that can stop it…

We’ve also been using our rapidly expanding resources and connections around the world to uncover the most powerful cures to some of today’s most common (and deadly) diseases…

And while you’ll find countless of them in your free copy of Forbidden Miracles …

We feel the five I mentioned above are so important, you absolutely must see them today.

We call them the INH Top Five .

And I’m going to reveal them to you right now, starting with…

A cancer-starving miracle used by an exclusive group of American oncologists

It’s been scientifically proven 10,000 times more powerful than standard methods alone in in-vitro studies…

One doctor is even reporting full remission rates of up to 95% ...

And even better, it also shields your healthy cells from harm!

That means you can now destroy 10,000 times more deadly cancer cells …

Without the agonizing side effects of conventional treatments.

And no matter how bleak your diagnosis… or advanced your cancer…

There is now real hope for complete and total remission.

Because this unique method is being used by doctors around the world to treat some of the most aggressive cancers known to man including…

Lung

Uterine

Bone

Lymphoma

Sarcoma

Hodgkin’s Lymphoma

Pancreatic

And that’s just a small sample.

Yes, right now patients are reporting recoveries from cancers once considered a death sentence as easily as if they were shaking off a bad cold.

And here’s the sad part…

Mainstream medicine has known about this method for decades. But instead of ending the suffering of tens of millions and promoting what many consider a real cure …

They chose to protect the profits of the cancer industry while your friends, family and acquaintances slowly succumbed to this horrible disease.

That ends today.

I’m going to fill you in on every last detail about this groundbreaking cancer breakthrough right now…

The scientific proof, the secret behind how it works and real-life patients who are cheating death by using it right now.

So let’s dive in.

In 1923, Canadian scientists received a Nobel Prize for the discovery of a natural protein they called Insula Peptide …

Researchers around the world were first stunned by its ability to treat everything from Diabetes to Syphilis.

But it was another 70 years before its true potential became clear.

Doctors believe Insula Peptide kills cancer cells in droves

It exploded in popularity in South America where patients used it to make full recoveries from their cancer…

All without the burning, scarring and disfiguring side effects of conventional treatments.

And that’s when The National Cancer Institute took notice…

In a peer reviewed study… they took aggressive cancer cells and treated them with one of the most widely prescribed chemotherapies on the market…

But then they did something else…

They added Insula Peptide …

And were bowled over by the results.

Insula Peptide obliterated 10,000 times more cancer cells than the chemotherapy alone

Think about that… a natural treatment proven 10,000 times stronger than one of the most popular chemotherapies on the market.

You’d think the National Cancer Institute would have touted this study in every major American news outlet…

And urged oncologists to start adding it to their treatment regimens immediately .

But that’s not what they did at all.

Because even though they knew Insula Peptide had proven the ability to save millions of lives , they also knew something else…

Results like this would mean a roughly 90% drop in conventional treatments for cancer… and tens of billions in lost profit .

So they didn’t even publish the study in the United States.

Instead it was relegated to a small European medical journal, where it gathered dust and was quickly forgotten.

But a tight circle of forward thinking American oncologists still managed to find the results—and quietly started treating patients of their own.

And the results they’re reporting are mind-blowing … After years of treating patients, one doctor reported…

A 95% full remission rate for tumors smaller than 4 cm



An 80% full remission rate for tumors larger than 4 cm



And remission rates of up to 70% for recurrent cancers (consistently the most difficult of cancers to treat)

How does Insula Peptide achieve such incredible results?

By essentially starving cancer cells to death.

Cancer cells crave glucose and they need to gobble it up to survive…

In fact, cancer cells consume 20 times more glucose than normal cells…

Insula Peptide works by denying these cells access to glucose and starving them completely…

Even better, the starving cancer cells start gobbling up anything they can for food… including standard cancer treatments…

This causes cancer cells and tumors to shrivel away to nothing like magic.

And because Insula Peptide acts like a cancer seeking missile … your healthy cells stay out of the line of fire and are left to thrive.

Which is why patients recover with none of the debilitating side effects experienced by conventional treatments…

In fact, one doctor’s patients report quality of life improvements of 98% .

And while American doctors using this method are flying under the radar to avoid possible consequences from the FDA and big pharma…

Thankful patients are singing its praises online…

Like Carrie T. from Montana who says, “I was diagnosed with breast cancer. It was a 6mm malignant tumor.

After Insula Peptide, my prognosis now is very good…

“Ultrasounds revealed the tumor is nothing but a shell.”

I had absolutely NO side effects , continued working, home schooling and lived life!

I have NEVER felt sick or run-down. I actually felt as healthy, if not more, while undergoing treatments.”

And then there’s Tracy M from San Antonio, who was facing a terrifying lung cancer diagnosis. She says…

“After my diagnosis, I felt that my life was finished and that I would probably not see my family again.”

But after trying Insula Peptide, everything changed for the better…

As she puts it…

“I had a CAT scan of the lung at the South Texas Scan Center and the radiology specialist reported that the mass had disappeared .

I could not believe that I had been successfully treated.

Six months later another x-ray reported the absence of cancerous tumors .

At the moment (15 years later) I continue to enjoy life and good health.”

“My lung cancer disappeared.”

And then there’s James U. from Connecticut who writes…

“I had stage 4 prostate cancer. Very serious.

Because it had spread, (metastasized) the urologist suggested I start an anti- androgen therapy, commonly called chemical castration.

He explained there is no cure, I would lose my hair and go through menopause.

I was willing to do it if there was no option but… my wife Teresa called a friend that knows a lot about medicine. They recommended Insula Peptide.”

And that’s when everything changed for James. As he puts it…

“The size of my prostate is now near normal and no traces of other tumors can be seen in ultrasound scans.”

“There is no cancer activity and the tumors are gone.”

And when Allison C. was diagnosed with breast cancer, doctors told her she’d be dead in 6 months when she chose Insula Peptide over more conventional methods…

In fact, as she puts it...

“Insula Peptide made the cancer a non-event! I never lost my hair, and I never got sick.”

I am now totally cancer free and all my scans are clear. This quite simply saved my life. I will always be grateful.”

And these are just a handful of countless testimonials found online.

For years this revolutionary therapy was extremely difficult to obtain…

In fact, if you asked your doctor about it today he probably wouldn’t know what you’re talking about.

And that’s exactly why the Institute for Natural Healing is releasing Forbidden Miracles: Natural Healing Secrets to the World’s Deadliest Diseases .

On page 375 of your free copy, you’ll have full access to everything you need to know about Insula Peptide cancer treatment.

Including contact info for the brave underground doctors across the country who are experts in this cutting edge treatment.

But that’s far from the only thing you’ll find inside.

In addition to the 5 natural disease cures and treatments we’re revealing in this video…

Forbidden Miracles will also bring you complete details on countless more life-saving breakthroughs that mainstream medicine and big pharma have been suppressing for decades.

I’m going to tell you exactly how to get your free, 504 page copy in just a moment…

But first, I’m going to fill you in on the 2nd in our INH Top Five list…

And if you or a loved one have been suffering from debilitating pain then you’ll want to pay close attention because this proves…

Full recovery from arthritis and chronic pain is now a reality

It’s all thanks to a brand new treatment known as the Sabin Technique , after one of its earliest pioneers.

And you’re about to see how it’s not just healing a lucky few… but achieving unheard of recovery rates of up to 100% in scientific studies.

It’s quietly being used right now for conditions such as…

Osteoarthritis

Damaged Knee Cartilage

Degenerative Discs

Torn ACLs

Shoulder Rotator Cuff Tears

And even Paralysis due to Stroke

And whether your pain is in your hips, back, shoulders, or knees …

The Sabin Technique has the power to bring you complete and total relief … without dangerous prescription drugs, costly surgeries or debilitating side effects.

And the science behind it is stunning doctors worldwide...

In fact, Dr. Natesh Parashurama who’s led more than 30 studies on the Sabin Technique for both Stanford and Harvard says,

“This will change medicine forever.”

And when you look at some of the studies we’ve compiled here at the Institute for Natural Healing, it’s easy to see why.

A small study conducted by the University of Liverpool was able to literally regrow damaged knee cartilage for 100% of the patients treated after 12 months. Most were able to avoid a costly knee replacement surgery.

A small study conducted by the University of Liverpool was able to treated after 12 months. Most were able to avoid a costly knee replacement surgery. A study on agonizing hip osteoarthritis published in the Journal of Hip Preservation Surgery found that 100% of participants treated with the Sabin technique were able to walk and move with ease afterwards. 100 PERCENT ...

A study on agonizing hip osteoarthritis published in the Journal of Hip Preservation Surgery found that 100% of participants treated with the Sabin technique were able to walk and move with ease afterwards. ... Researchers from the University of Texas studied patients with degenerative disks so advanced and painful, their only option was a horrifying spinal fusion surgery. But after treatment with the Sabin Technique, 81% of the patients were so much better they avoided the surgery completely .

Researchers from the University of Texas studied patients with degenerative disks so advanced and painful, their only option was a horrifying spinal fusion surgery. But after treatment with the Sabin Technique, . And doctors from the University of Oregon treated patients with a torn ACL—an injury that normally requires almost a full year of rehabilitation—and 70% were able to regain nearly full function within just 3 months .

And that’s just a handful of the stunning research we have on file.

In fact, there are over 4,500 clinical trials involving the Sabin Technique right now.

So how does this work?

The Sabin Technique is a non-invasive treatment that works by doing something surgery and drugs simply can’t…

It harnesses your cell’s own healing powers to miraculously regrow damaged ligaments and joints .

So instead of masking the pain like addictive drugs… or filling you with metal plates, screws and stents like expensive surgeries…

The Sabin Technique actually targets the root cause of your pain … reverses the damage and leaves you totally pain-free.

And patients aren’t shy about sharing their shocking recoveries online…

Patients like Gabriel Marks from Los Angeles.

Gabriel was 55 but still keeping up with skiers decades younger on the most difficult slopes.

Then he started feeling stabbing pains in his knees and was diagnosed with osteoarthritis.

Doctors told him his only hope was a grueling surgery to replace both knees.

But Gabriel decided to go another route… he tried the Sabin Technique .

And now four years later…

Without expensive surgeries, addictive drugs or wallet-draining rehab of any kind…

Gabriel is back to intense skiing.

In fact, his knees feel so good he’s taken up a second sport, competitive long-distance cycling… routinely biking 200 miles at a stretch.

He even won California’s prestigious Triple Crown cycling award.

Yes…

Gabriel avoided a double knee replacement and became a medal-winning cyclist thanks to the Sabin Technique

And then there’s Jim B from Orlando, Florida.

For Jim, walking just a few steps was agony.

His doctor told him he needed to have surgery to replace the joints in his hips…

But instead, Jim opted for the Sabin Technique.

The simple treatment lasted only an hour and a half and …

After just two months Jim was more active and pain-free than he’d been in years.

But one of the most incredible stories comes from Shannon C. out of New York.

Shannon suffered a debilitating stroke that left her partially paralyzed in one leg.

But then she heard about a trial study for the Sabin Technique being performed at Stanford University …

And that’s when her life changed forever.

She says the improvement was instantaneous .

As she puts it, “My leg is about 95% better. Everything is good and it’s only getting better.”

But here’s what’s so incredible about this story…

She wasn’t the only one!

There were 18 other patients treated with the Sabin Technique who all had results similar to Shannon.

And these weren’t small transformations.

According to chief science officer, Dr. Kristin Comella…

“We literally have patients who have come out of wheelchairs and are walking again.”

Yes, the Sabin Technique is that life-changing...

In fact, because of these results… it’s currently undergoing its first trial study for ALS as we speak.

But its promise is also part of its downfall.

Why?

Because the Sabin Technique has the power to completely replace surgery and prescription pain killers …

Which again means a potential profit loss of tens of billions.

And while the FDA can’t stop valid research…

They have completely turned their back on the growing Sabin Technique industry, likely hoping it will fail.

Right now there is zero regulation…

But luckily, the Institute for Natural Healing has done the work for you.

On page 313 in your free copy of Forbidden Miracles …

We tell you exactly how to find America’s top Sabin Technique experts and also provide you with 7 “must see” tips before you try it.

Yes, the Sabin Technique sounds like the stuff of miracles but it’s very real .

People across the country are quietly using it to reverse conditions science once thought incurable…

All while the government and mainstream medicine stick their heads in the sand.

It’s maddening!

And unfortunately, they’re doing exactly the same thing with the third cure on our INH Top Five list …

A strange Eastern solution to America’s most dreaded disease: Alzheimer’s

If there’s one disease that perfectly captures the complete and total failure of America’s medical system it’s Alzheimer’s.

It’s been over 100 years since the disease was first identified and we’re still no closer to a cure…

In fact, we’re getting further away.

In the last 15 years there hasn’t been a single new drug approved to fight Alzheimer’s.

Not one.

And the drugs that do exist are more like a bad joke.

They do virtually nothing but delay symptoms for a few months at best.

Which is why if you or a loved one are suffering from this horrible disease, what I’m about to show you could change your life forever.

It’s a completely natural treatment for Alzheimer’s that makes America’s prescriptions for the disease seem like a sugar pill.

It’s known as Chinese Acetyl Moss . And while it may not look all that special…

This simple-looking moss is now being used to reverse Alzheimer’s symptoms across China

In fact, it’s currently one of the go-to Alzheimer’s treatments prescribed by Chinese doctors.

And it’s not simply delaying or halting symptoms for a short time…

This natural breakthrough is actually reversing Alzheimer’s symptoms, switching on patients’ memory and giving them back their lives .

Put simply, these patients are waking up from Alzheimer’s .

And the research behind it is undeniable.

The Institute for Natural Healing researched more than 20 years of science on Acetyl Moss…

And we were stunned by what we found.

In 2014, scientists at China Medical University published a review of multiple studies that show it doesn’t just target one aspect of cognitive function…

Acetyl Moss “lights up” nearly every aspect of your brain across the board

When tested against placebo, scientists were amazed to discover its benefits could be seen from one end of the mental spectrum to the other…

Patients taking it showed dramatic improvements in…

Memory

Space and time orientation

Attention

Calculation

Language

Repetition

And following complex commands

And not surprisingly, the researchers also concluded that Acetyl Moss supplements were far superior to some of the most widely prescribed Alzheimer’s drugs on the market…

Including Razadyne, Aricept and Cognex.

Even better, it works without the scary side effects of hallucinations, fever, seizures, depression, and more associated with those drugs.

Another study from the prestigious Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences was even more stunning…

In fact, it’s one of the first studies I’ve seen that actually uses the word “remarkable” .

They tested Acetyl Moss on 100 Alzheimer’s patients and found that…

Acetyl Moss skyrocketed patients’ brain function an unheard of 460%

Yes, 460%!

They were showing significant improvements in everything from memory, to thinking, to mood and behavioral functions.

In short, the lights came back on for these patients!

But it’s one thing to hear about the studies and another to hear from a real live patient online who’s experienced similar results…

Like Marge T.…

Marge’s short term memory was declining rapidly to the point where she believes she was in the first stages of Alzheimer’s…

She had trouble remembering simple names and words and was even starting to avoid people because she couldn’t keep a conversation flowing…

But after just a couple days on an Acetyl Moss supplement she states…

“I had names and words when I needed them. I was totally amazed.”

Acetyl Moss works by increasing levels of a chemical messenger in the brain known as Acetylcholine.

As we age, the levels of Acetylcholine in our brains naturally decline, which can lead to those senior moments we’re all familiar with.

But Alzheimer’s patients have another problem…

An enzyme known as acetylcholinesterase (AChE) that drops Acetylcholine levels even more… sometimes as much as 90%.

That’s when the devastating symptoms of Alzheimer’s take hold.

But Acetyl Moss works by specifically targeting this rogue enzyme so your levels of memory-boosting Acetylcholine can not only normalize but skyrocket .

Which is leading to the unheard of results we’ve gone over.

And it’s also why it’s now a natural Alzheimer’s prescription in China.

But its widespread use there is also leading to a problem…

Acetyl Moss is now being harvested at a lightening pace that’s putting it on the verge of extinction.

Which means it’s becoming increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain…

But inside your very own free copy of the 504 page Forbidden Miracles , the Institute for Natural Healing will fill you in on everything you need to get your very own supply…

Just turn to page 25 and we’ll reveal a natural, self-replenishing source (backed by a Yale scientist) that’s not only our first and only choice for Acetyl Moss…

It’s also dirt cheap at less than $1 a day!

In a second, you’ll discover exactly how you can get this life-saving book right now, free of charge…

But first, let me explain how the fourth cure on our INH top five could be your only hope against America’s #1 killer.

In fact,

This delicious Israeli drink clears clogged arteries 5 times better than any prescription drug

But the study that proves it has been covered up and virtually buried for years…

And the statin industry desperately hopes its contents are never revealed.

But that’s exactly what the Institute for Natural Healing is doing today.

Because while statins can lower your cholesterol…

They’re also linked to more than 300 adverse side effects .

Even worse, they do virtually nothing to deal with the clogged arteries which are responsible for 1 in 4 deaths every year in America .

But while you and your loved ones suffer…

Israeli scientists have finally discovered the answer to reversing atherosclerosis, every cardiologists’ white whale.

Sure, it looks like nothing more than a tasty beverage but this natural drink has the power to save millions .

It was first widely tested on mice where its power to clear blocked arteries was first proven…

But scientists remained skeptical until researchers finally put it to the test in a human trial.

But they didn’t just test it on ordinary patients, they tested it on patients with severe atherosclerosis… meaning their arteries were 70%-90% clogged .

And what they found is nothing short of amazing …

Patients drinking just 1 glass a day washed away 30% of the deadly plaque buildup in their arteries after just one year

It was like pouring Drano down a clogged kitchen drain!

To put that in perspective, one of the most popular statins in America went on a marketing blitz after showing just a 6% reduction in plaque.

Which means the natural Israeli treatment cleared 5 TIMES more plaque than America’s leading statin.

Not to mention, patients in the study who took the placebo actually increased their plaque buildup by 9% over that same period…

So patients drinking this simple beverage had 40% cleaner arteries after just one year than those who didn’t !

Imagine what would happen after 2 years.

Even better, patients also saw a 21% reduction in blood pressure and 90% reduction in LDL oxidation (meaning their cholesterol was less likely to stick to artery walls).

Friend, this simple, tasty drink is your key to not only dissolving lethal artery plaque like magic…

But also ending your fear of a deadly “anytime/anywhere” heart attack for good.

So what’s keeping doctors from prescribing this at the first sign of high cholesterol or plaque buildup?

$19 billion.

That’s the current size of America’s statin industry. It’s more than the economy of a modest sized country.

And just like a sovereign nation, the statin industry will do anything to defend itself from enemies.

Which is why studies on this natural, artery-cleansing drink are relegated to the nether regions of the internet.

But inside your free copy of Forbidden Miracles , you’ll find full details on this life-saving drink…

Including the cheapest, most potent and tastiest source available.

In a minute, I’m going to tell you exactly how to get this 504 page book absolutely free (we’ll even cover the shipping)…

And when you get it, be sure and open to page 209.

That’s where anyone suffering from diabetes will want to turn immediately.

Why?

Because it reveals…

A simple, 8 week solution to reversing diabetes for good

Diabetes has become an epidemic in the US…

And Big Pharma has jacked up the prices so high for treatment that patients are actually resorting to things like buying black market insulin online.

But what if you could completely reverse diabetes and train your body to start producing healthy amounts of insulin again…

Completely on its own?

Well, researchers from New Castle University in London have figured out how to do just that…

Without dangerous drugs, grueling exercise… and without life-altering gastric bypass surgery.

And again… this isn’t just a treatment for Diabetes. This is being looked at as an actual cure.

As one of the doctors behind this revolutionary method puts it...

"This is a radical change in understanding type 2 diabetes... We have shown that we can reverse the condition."

And it’s absolutely changing the lives of patients who’ve tried it…

Patients like Iris M.

Iris was 59 when doctors diagnosed her with Type 2 diabetes…

For the next three years she was on a steadily increasing supply of medication with insulin injections likely right around the corner…

But then someone mentioned the New Castle method that was starting to gain steam in Europe…

After about 16 weeks her doctor gave her the unbelievable news…

Her blood sugar was now completely normal.

As she puts it,

“When doctors told me that my pancreas was working again, it felt fantastic, absolutely amazing!”

“I don’t think of myself as a diabetic anymore. I am one of the lucky ones to have gone into remission.

I’ve not taken any medication for diabetes in three years … and feeling great!”

And Iris isn’t the only one…

In fact, in one small study using this new method, 100% of the patients were able to completely reverse their diabetes after just 8 weeks …

Yes, a disease that mainstream medicine labels as “incurable” is being cured right now…

And when you turn to page 209 of Forbidden Miracles you’ll find full details on exactly how they’re doing it…

Without prescriptions, surgeries or giving up the foods they love.

Can you imagine a life without pills, insulin shots and counting every single calorie?

It’s a reality for “recovered diabetics” in Europe and now it can be yours when you claim your free copy of Forbidden Miracles .

This 504 page free gift will give you everything you need to know about the Institute for Natural Healing’s Top Five most important natural cures…

A secret breakthrough that kills 10,000 times more cancer cells than standard methods alone, used by an underground network of American oncologists. The brand new “Sabin Technique” that completely reverses arthritis, eliminates pain and repairs damaged joints . It’s so powerful it’s even been shown to reverse paralysis! Rare Chinese “Acetyl Moss” that blows away top-selling Alzheimer’s drugs and improves memory function by 460% . (Supplies are limited but we’ll tell you how to secure your very own.) A liquid Israeli cardio solution that reverses heart disease and clears clogged arteries 5 times better than any prescription . (And tastes delicious!) The simple solution for reversing type II diabetes in as little as 8 weeks that’s stunning European scientists. (It tricks your body into creating its own insulin again!)

And don’t forget, inside you’ll also find full details on AC-44, the natural immune enhancer that’s your only source of protection against the deadly Mexican “Blood Flu”.

But believe it or not… that’s still not all.

Inside you’ll find full details on…

✓ The odd breathing trick that reverses depression for 70% of patients in just 4 weeks. (Page 70)

✓ 5 drug-free “sexercises” to skyrocket your bedroom pleasure (page 165)

✓ A 2009 Nobel Prize winning discovery that holds the key to reversing aging. (page 93)

✓ 7 reasons why your high blood pressure may have been misdiagnosed (happens to 30% of patients). (page 256)

✓ How to get longer, more lasting sleep with this simple light therapy secret. (page 137)

✓ 7 natural secrets to slash food cravings and burn unwanted fat. (page 177)

✓ The simple “fighter pilot” secret to shaving significant points off your blood pressure. (page 259)

✓ An odd Harvard sitting technique that erases years of chronic back pain. (page 357)

✓ The lethal microscopic fungus at the heart of every cancer diagnosis and how to stop it cold. (page 381)

✓ 10 natural methods for stopping hearing loss in its tracks. (page 437)

At 504 pages, Forbidden Miracles is by far the largest free gift that we’ve ever offered.

But unfortunately this free book is in limited supply…

And you won’t find it available in stores or online.

But for the next 24 hours we’ve reserved a FREE copy in your name.

The information on every single page was painstakingly cultivated directly from research done by The Institute for Natural Healing.

It’s information that you simply can’t get from mainstream sources…

And frankly, it’s information that may just save your life.

No one expects a serious health diagnosis…

But when it comes you need to make life or death decisions in a split second.

Which means you don’t have time to research all the life-saving options that are available to you…

But with this free 504 book at your side, you won’t have to.

The Institute for Natural Healing has done the research for you so,

Now you can have all of our healing knowledge at your fingertips when you need it most... absolutely free.

And every piece of information you’ll find inside was first seen by members of The Institute for Natural Healing in our exclusive newsletter: Independent Healing .

Independent Healing is published each month for a very specific and exclusive audience in mind…

An audience who isn’t afraid to question the one-size-fits-all recommendations from today’s mainstream medicine…

An audience who can handle the unredacted truth.

And when you click below and accept this invitation for membership into this exclusive organization…

We’ll rush you your very own FREE copy of Forbidden Miracles .

Each month, subscribers to Independent Healing get a front row seat to some of the most cutting-edge natural discoveries as they occur…

Our professional team of doctors, researchers and health professionals gain access to natural breakthroughs sometimes years before they trickle out to the mainstream.

And with your subscription to Independent Healing , you won’t have to wait… as soon as we know, you’ll know.

And to get an idea of what these drug-free, natural solutions can mean for your life...

You don’t have to look further than what current members of Independent Healing are saying…

Patricia Henry from Orefield, PA says , “The content is rich and clear. Independent Healing offers me ongoing insight into cancer issues that I am dealing with. It is always good to hear from a different and more positive and natural point of view.”

, “The content is rich and clear. Independent Healing offers me ongoing insight into cancer issues that I am dealing with. It is always good to hear from a different and more positive and natural point of view.” Peter Mooney from Fallon, Nevada writes , “ Independent Healing will change your life and your perception of the medical treatments available. Independent Healing really means live long and prosper.”

, “ and your perception of the medical treatments available. Independent Healing really means live long and prosper.” Martha Clarkson from Fontana, CA says , “ Very informative articles that get me thinking and asking informed questions of people who are responsible for keeping me in my best health.”

, “ articles that get me thinking and asking informed questions of people who are responsible for keeping me in my best health.” And finally Brad Dillings from Tacoma, WA writes , “Independent Healing has helped me with better sleep, reduced joint pain, brain function, memory, focus, ability to inform friends and family of new found home remedies. It’s worth it, it may save your life or someone you love .”

With each and every new issue of Independent healing you’ll begin to understand what our many members already know…

Getting older does not mean getting sicker

Mainstream medicine and big pharma are desperately trying to convince Americans that it’s perfectly normal to suffer through old age…

And that all you need is a new prescription or a higher dosage of your current meds to get by.

It’s all part of their business model… and so is keeping you from the real information you need to live a long healthy life without mounting prescriptions, surgeries and hospital stays.

That’s where your subscription to Independent Healing comes in.

As a member, each month we’ll send you the latest research from around the world on today’s deadliest diseases.

You’ll also have direct access to our member’s only website which archives all our most important health insights and information.

We’ll also send you an exclusive daily email filled with the most crucial life-saving topics that just can’t wait until the end of the month.

And if you need help with anything you can’t find through our newsletter or website …

You can also reach out to us directly through our staff email or phone number.

All you need to do is click below and start your subscription to Independent Healing right now.

When you do, we’ll not only rush you out your very own free copy of the 504 page Forbidden Miracles …

You’ll also have peace of mind knowing your subscription is fully covered under…

The INH “no questions, no hassle” 100% satisfaction guarantee

We want you to be completely comfortable with your order…

So if for any reason, at any time you’re not satisfied with your subscription… feel free to cancel.

We’ll refund every last cent for your remaining issues… no questions asked.

And don’t worry, even if you decide to cancel… you can feel free to keep your 504 page gift with our compliments.

It’s yours no matter what. And that’s not all!

When you order within the next 12 hours you’ll also be eligible for 2 fast reply bonus reports !

That’s right, when you click below and reserve your free 504 page book right now… we’ll also rush you:

Fast Reply Bonus #1 : Turn Back The Clock—Living your glory days at any age . This free bonus report shows you the safest, simplest ways to enhance your “golden years” completely drug-free. Inside you’ll learn about… The 4 age accelerants robbing you of your youth Simple methods men (and women!) can use to skyrocket their sex life at any age How to boost your energy, strength, balance and even eyesight with the “fountain of youth” hormone 12 simple tricks to improve your memory and brain power

. This free bonus report shows you the safest, simplest ways to enhance your “golden years” completely drug-free. Inside you’ll learn about… Fast Reply Bonus #2: The Truth About Heart Disease: And how to save your life . This free bonus report cuts through the rumors and simplifies one of the most complicated health issues out there. Inside you’ll fine full details on… The 3 biggest myths about cholesterol Never take this heart prescription (0.1% effective) Why conventional heart screenings are 90% ineffective The 8 simple screenings your doctor should be prescribing 7 natural supplements that are putting heart prescriptions to shame

. This free bonus report cuts through the rumors and simplifies one of the most complicated health issues out there. Inside you’ll fine full details on…

Each of these reports has a value of $24.95 but when you place your order right now, you’ll get both completely free of charge…

And yes, they’re also covered under my 100% satisfaction guarantee. So you’ll get to keep these and the book even if you cancel .

So your order today is completely risk free!

But remember, we only have a limited number of this free 504 page book in supply …

So you need to click below right now in order to reserve your copy.

Inside you’ll find full details on everything we’ve discussed today including…

The AC-44 immune booster. Your best protection against the Mexican Blood Flu .

The AC-44 immune booster. . A secret breakthrough that kills 10,000 times more cancer cells than standard methods alone .

A secret breakthrough that . The brand new “Sabin Technique” that completely reverses arthritis, eliminates pain and repairs damaged joints .

The brand new “Sabin Technique” . Rare Chinese “Acetyl Moss” that blows away top-selling Alzheimer’s drugs and improves memory function by 460% .

Rare Chinese “Acetyl Moss” . A liquid Israeli cardio solution that reverses heart disease and clears clogged arteries 5 times better than any prescription . (And tastes delicious!)

A liquid Israeli cardio solution that reverses heart disease and . (And tastes delicious!) The simple solution for reversing type II diabetes in as little as 8 weeks that’s stunning European scientists.

All you need to do is click below to place your order now and we’ll rush you this enormous free gift along with your 2 fast reply bonus reports… completely risk free!

This is without a doubt the biggest free offer we’ve ever given, so I don’t expect supplies to last long.

Click below right now to reserve your exclusive gifts while they’re still available!

We’ll rush you a physical copy of the book but you don’t have to wait, as soon as your order is placed you can review a copy online immediately .

So click below right now to take advantage of this exclusive offer and start your subscription today!