Iran’s FAR News Agency reports the Iraq Army has shot down two British planes delivering weapons to the Islamic State.

“The Iraqi Parliament’s National Security and Defense Committee has access to the photos of both planes that are British and have crashed while they were carrying weapons for the ISIL,” Head of the committee Hakem al-Zameli said, according to the Arabic-language information center of the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq.

The incident was reported by foreign and alternative media but not mentioned by the establishment media in the U.S. Europe.

Hakem al-Zameli, a senior Iraqi legislator, added that the current government in Baghdad is receiving daily reports from security forces in al-Anbar province about flights airdropping weapons to ISIS.

He said the U.S. wants to promote chaos in Iraq and does this by supporting the Islamic State.

Other Iraqi lawmakers are complaining about the situation.

“We have discovered weapons made in the US, European countries and Israel from the areas liberated from ISIL’s control in Al-Baqdadi region,” the al-Ahad news website quoted the head of the al-Anbar Provincial Council Khalaf Tarmouz as saying.

Weapons made in Europe and Israel were also discovered in Ramadi, Tarmouz said.

“The US drops weapons for the ISIL on the excuse of not knowing about the whereabouts of the ISIL positions and it is trying to distort the reality with its allegations,” he said.

In December Iranian state media claimed U.S. military aircraft dropped weapons in areas held by the Islamic State for a second time.

Infowars.com reported:

Iraqi volunteers fighting against IS in the Yathrib and Balad districts in Iraq’s Salahuddin Province reported the air drops. Iraq claims it now has the upper hand in the battle to regain territory from the terrorist group. In October a purported errant airdrop of weapons fell into the hands Islamic State fighters outside Kobani in Syria. In November Iraqi intelligence sources said the U.S. is actively supplying ISIS with weapons. “The Iraqi intelligence sources reiterated that the US military planes have airdropped several aid cargoes for ISIL terrorists to help them resist the siege laid by the Iraqi army, security and popular forces,” a report stated. “What is important is that the US sends these weapons to only those that cooperate with the Pentagon and this indicates that the US plays a role in arming the ISIL.”

In July, Infowars.com reported on the large amount of U.S. weapons captured by ISIS.

In addition to combat ground vehicles and artillery previously acquired from the Iraqi military, the trove taken form U.S. bases included more than 50 155mm M-198 artillery batteries and 4,000 PKC machine guns.

The acquisition of sophisticated weapons converted ISIS from a terrorist group into an army capable of waging conventional war in Iraq and Syria.

Take advantage of one of nature’s most hardworking nutrients with Vasobeet now at 40% off!