AP A gunman is on the loose after a shooting in Ottawa near the Canadian parliament

Corporal Nathan Cirillo, 24 was guarding near the country's parliament in Ottawa when he was gunned down by Canadian Michael Zehaf-Bibeau. Zehaf-Bibeau, who was a recent convert to Islam, raised his arms in celebration after the shooting which sparked a lockdown in the Ottawa downtown area. Government sources reported the 32-year-old was shot dead by parliament's sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers. In his first address to the nation since the attack, prime minister Stephen Harper condemned it as a " brutal attack" and said terrorists would find "no safe haven" in his country.

AFP/GETTY A soldier was left wounded following the Ottawa shooting

Just as it will strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts to work with our allies around the world and fight against the terrorist organisations who brutalise those in other countries with the hope of bringing their savagery to our shores. They will Canadian MP Stephen Harper

The country's leader was evacuated from the parliament building where he was holding a meeting at the time of the shooting. He said: "For the second time this week, there has been a brutal and violent act on our soil. "In the days to come we will learn more about the terrorist and any accomplices he may have had. "This week's events are a grim reminder that Canada is not immune to the types of terrorist attacks we have seen elsewhere around the world. "But let there be no misunderstanding, we will not be intimidated. Canada will never be intimidated. He continued: "In fact this will lead us to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts to take all necessary steps to identify and counter threats and keep Canada safe here at home. "Just as it will strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts to work with our allies around the world and fight against the terrorist organisations who brutalise those in other countries with the hope of bringing their savagery to our shores. "They will have no safe haven." He added that a suspect in an earlier attack on Monday, when a man allegedly rammed his car into two Canadian soldiers, killing one and injuring the other, was and "Isil (Islamic State)-inspired terrorist". Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson said: "Today is a sad and tragic day for our city and our country".

Britain's prime minister David Cameron said he was "appalled" by the attack on Twitter last night. He wrote: "I offer my full support to @pmharper and the Canadian people as they deal with this incident," the Prime Minister wrote. The country's MP Craig Scott wrote on Twitter: "MPs and Hill staff owe their safety, even lives, to sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers who shot attacker just outside the MPs' caucus rooms."

AP Soldiers stand guard after the Ottawa shooting

It was unclear whether other gunmen remained at large, with police describing the incident as an "ongoing" operation with no-one currently in custody. Police received a number of calls at 9.52am local time after the soldier was shot, with further gunfire then taking place inside Parliament Hill. Officers said that, contrary to reports, no third incident occurred at the Rideau Centre shopping mall.

INSTAGRAM The soldier shot dead in Ottawa was identified by Canadian media as Nathan Cirillo

Cops said in the initial hours that as many as two other gunmen may have taken part in the attacks. But by late in the evening, the cordon around parliament was lifted and police said there was no longer any threat to the public in the area. Thousands of tributes have poured in on a Facebook page set up in memory of Cpl Cirillo. One message, from Bob Rodkin, read: "RIP Nathan. Thank you for your service and the ultimate sacrifice. So tragic, so unnecessary. My prayers go out for you and to your family, friends and colleagues."

AP Police secure the area surrounding Parliament Hill in Ottawa

While another from Olivia Marie, said: "RIP Nathan! Thank you for defending our country, your son is so proud of you. I miss you." Cabinet minister Tony Clement tweeted that at least 30 shots were fired while a meeting was taking place between Mr Harper and other MPs. "I feared this day would come, and my prayers are with the fallen soldier," he added.

REUTERS/THE GLOBE AND MAIL Police officers respond to the shooting inside the Canadian parliament

Video filmed from inside the parliament building shows officers rushing down a large marble hallway with weapons drawn in front of them, before the sound of gunfire and shouting rings out. The footage becomes shaky as the cameraman rushes for cover behind a pillar. People inside the parliament building scrambled down scaffolding to escape, witnesses said.

REUTERS Sergeant-at-arms Kevin Vickers (above) reportedly shot gunman Michael Zehaf-Bibeau

A photograph of chairs piled up against a door as a barricade was being heavily circulated on Twitter, apparently taken inside the meeting room in the parliament building where MPs earlier held their talks. Alain Merizier, a waiter in the parliament dining room, said he was on his way to work when he saw a gunman run from a car towards the parliament. "I saw a car suddenly stop," he told the BBC. "There was only one man in the car. He went out of the left side. "He had a long gun and he ran away to the front and went inside the parliament. I heard one shot. I saw an officer running after him."

REUTERS The shooting happened at the National War Memorial in Ottawa