It’s Bell Let’s Talk Day! Join the world’s biggest mental health conversation as we get ready to achieve some major milestones

All-time Bell Let’s Talk Day messages of support set to top a total of 1 billion this year; Bell’s total funding commitment to surpass $100 million

Get engaged at no cost to you: Talk, text and join in on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat today to support mental health and drive Bell donations based on participation

View the video featuring Alessia Cara, Anderson Cooper, Ellen DeGeneres, Lisa LaFlamme, Seth Rogen plus Howie Mandel and other members of the Bell Let’s Talk team

Discover the stories of 41 Friends of Bell Let’s Talk who have struggled with mental illness

Watch Bell Let’s Talk Day primetime television specials tonight

Take part in events across the country, including new Bell Let’s Talk flag raisings

Learn more about how we can all move Canada’s mental health forward at Bell.ca/LetsTalk

MONTRÉAL, January 30, 2019 – It’s Bell Let’s Talk Day 2019 and you’re invited to talk, text and get engaged in the conversation on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat all day long to help fight the stigma, call for action and drive Bell’s donations to mental health at no cost to you. Today, we’re ready to surpass 1 billion all-time Bell Let’s Talk Day messages of support for mental health, while Bell’s total funding commitment to mental health is set to top $100 million.

“Bell Let’s Talk Day has quickly grown into the biggest conversation about mental health anywhere and we hope you’ll join in to let those who struggle know they’ve got your support. By raising our voices today, we drive action in mental health all year long – including Bell’s ongoing donations to care, research, community development and other initiatives,” said Mary Deacon, Chair of Bell Let’s Talk. “Bell Let’s Talk is a made-in-Canada mental health program that has captured the attention of the world – including major influencers and celebrities who’ve joined our Bell Let’s Talk team in spreading the word about mental health.”

The Bell Let’s Talk Day videos

In addition to talk, text and other interactions of support today, your views of the Bell Let’s Talk Day videos on social media platforms are counted toward Bell’s donation to mental health. This year, the videos feature several high-profile celebrities alongside the Bell Let’s Talk team:

The English-language video features Alessia Cara, Anderson Cooper, Ellen DeGeneres, Lisa LaFlamme and Seth Rogen with Bell Let’s Talk team members Mike Babcock, Manon Charbonneau, Denni Clement, David K. Henry, Chris Johnson, Queena Lau, Howie Mandel, and Souad Saidj. The French-language video features Adib Alkhalidey, Luc Bellemare, Sophie Cadieux, Guy Carbonneau, Véronique Cloutier, Gilbert Delorme, Jonathan Drouin, François Gagnon, Julien Lacroix, Marie-Mai, Herby Moreau and Alexandre Taillefer with the Bell Let’s Talk team of Étienne Boulay, Marie-Soleil Dion, Patricia Lemoine, Michel Mpambara, and Stefie Shock.

Join the conversation to drive Bell donations

It’s easy to be part of the Bell Let’s Talk Day conversation all day long and across multiple communications platforms. Bell donates 5 cents to Canadian mental health programs for each of these interactions, at no extra cost to participants beyond what they would normally pay their service provider for online or phone access:

Talk: Every mobile call and every long distance call made by Bell wireless and phone customers

Text: Every text message sent by Bell wireless customers

Twitter: Every tweet and retweet using #BellLetsTalk, featuring the special Bell Let’s Talk emoji and Bell Let’s Talk Day video view at Twitter.com/Bell_LetsTalk

Twitter: Every tweet and retweet using #BellLetsTalk, featuring the special Bell Let’s Talk emoji and Bell Let’s Talk Day video view at Twitter.com/Bell_LetsTalk Facebook: Every view of the Bell Let’s Talk Day video at Facebook.com/BellLetsTalk and use of the Bell Let’s Talk frame

Instagram: Every Bell Let’s Talk Day video view at Instagram.com/Bell_LetsTalk

Snapchat: Every use of the Bell Let’s Talk filter and Bell Let’s Talk Day video view

Total Bell Let’s Talk Day interactions since the first event in 2011 stand at 867,449,649 and are expected to exceed an all-time total of 1 billion today. Bell’s funding for mental health, including the company’s donations based on Bell Let’s Talk Day engagement and its original $50-million donation to launch the initiative, is now $93,423,628.80 and expected to surpass $100 million today.

Bell Let’s Talk events

Please see below for a list of events taking place across the country today, including appearances by Bell Let’s Talk ambassadors and Friends, primetime TV specials and much more. Communities and organizations nationwide will also show their support for the mental health cause with Bell Let’s Talk flag raisings (joining earlier flag raisings by Charlottetown City Hall, the Nova Scotia Legislature, Quinte Sports and Wellness Centre, the RCMP national and D Division Headquarters, the Ottawa Senators, North Bay Battalion and Niagara Ice Dogs).

Bell Let’s Talk Day primetime TV specials

CTV Your Morning’s Anne-Marie Mediwake hosts In Their Own Words: A Bell Let’s Talk Day Special, an all-new primetime special premiering at 7 pm ET/PT on CTV and CTV2. Featuring stories from Canadians living with mental illness, the hour-long program will be simulcast on Twitter, CTV.ca and the CTV app as part of a 3-hour Bell Let’s Talk Live interactive special.

Olympic medalist Sylvie Fréchette and comedian Félix-Antoine Tremblay (Le Chalet, Code G.) host Quand la maladie mentale s’invite, a documentary that looks at organizations working with people coping with mental health issues, exploring themes of family, work, everyday life and the street. Airing on RDS at 7:30 pm and 11:30 pm ET, Canal Vie and Z at 9 pm ET and Canal D at 10 pm ET, the documentary will be available to stream at 10 pm ET on VRAK.tv, RDS.ca, Canal Vie and Z and at 11 pm ET at Canal D.

Twitter Live event

Hosted by CTV’s The Social and Your Morning’s Melissa Grelo from 6:45 pm to 10 pm ET, Bell Let’s Talk Live on Twitter features interviews with medical experts, political leaders, celebrities and other guests. The special recaps moments from throughout the day, including segments from The Marilyn Denis Show, The Social, Etalk and CTV News, and highlights contributions from celebrities and social media. Bell Let’s Talk Live streams in simulcast with In Their Own Words: A Bell Let’s Talk Day Special from 7 to 8 pm ET. Viewers can connect with the show on Twitter using @Bell_LetsTalk and #BellLetsTalk.

Jessica Holmes on The Social

Jessica joins The Social as fifth chair for a special Bell Let’s Talk Day episode.

Robin Williams documentary at Hot Docs

In partnership with Hot Docs and Workman Arts, a special free screening of Robin Williams: Come Inside My Mind takes place at the Hot Docs Ted Rogers Cinema in Toronto at 6:30 pm ET. A discussion panel following the event will feature Bell Let’s Talk team members Mary Walsh, Jessica Holmes and Dr. Joti Samra.

Bruno Guévremont at CFB Halifax

Royal Canadian Navy veteran Bruno takes part in the first Bell Let’s Talk Day flag raising ceremony at CFB Halifax at 8 am AT before speaking with healthcare professionals at the IWK Health Centre at 9 am AT. He then joins the annual Canadian Armed Forces panel discussion on mental health at 2 pm AT with DND Co-Champion for Mental Health Jerry Ryan, Commodore Chris Sutherland, Lieutenant-Colonel David Coker, Corporal Travis Weir, Petty Officer 2nd Class Chevonne Fisher, and psychologist Chimène Jewer. The event will be moderated by CTV’s Paul Hollingsworth with Base Operations Officer Lieutenant-Commander Sylvie Robinson, and will live-stream on Facebook. Bruno will also speak with visitors at the Discovery Centre at 6 pm AT.

Toronto Rehabilitation Institute Mental Health Webinar

Traci Melchor, 2018 Champion of Mental Health Award recipient and CTV’s Etalk senior correspondent, joins Toronto Rehab in hosting a special mental health webinar focused on anxiety and depression. The webinar will be streamed live from Toronto Rehab’s University Centre beginning at 12:10 pm ET. At the conclusion of the webinar, Traci will present a $25,000 Bell Let’s Talk Community Fund grant to the organization.

Shea Emry in Ottawa

The Canada School of Public Service, the Federal Youth Network and the Centre of Expertise on Mental Health in the Workplace partner to present the Government of Canada Bell Let's Talk Day with Shea Emry at 12 noon ET.

Len Reynen in Ottawa

Len will speak with more than 100 nursing students at Algonquin College.

Michel Mpambara in Gatineau

Michel is speaking to high school students at Collège Nouvelles Frontières.

Jonathan Thériault and Richard Langlois at CFB Valcartier

Jonathan and Richard will take part in a Bell Let’s Talk flag raising event at 2nd Canadian Division Support Group at 8:30 am ET.

Étienne Boulay in Québec City

The Festival d’été de Québec presents a special evening for the CERVO Foundation at Impérial Bell in Québec City at 5:30 pm ET. The evening will be hosted by Étienne and will feature a performance by singer-songwriter Jonathan Roy. Free admission with reservations.

Andrew Jensen in Winnipeg

Andrew will participate in the True North Youth Summit at Bell MTS Place at 11 am CT. Andrew will also present a 2018 Bell Let’s Talk Community Fund cheque to the Mood Disorders Association of Manitoba at the Spin Away Stigma event at 1:30 pm CT.

Chris Johnson in Edmonton

Chris will participate as a panelist at CMHA Edmonton’s annual Distress Line Breakfast at 7 am MT. Chris will also speak at a fundraiser for the Edmonton Mental Health Awareness Committee at Block 1912 Café at 6 pm MT.

Raptors 905 game in support of Bell Let’s Talk

At a special Raptors 905 game at 11 am ET, approximately 5,000 young people will receive Bell Let’s Talk/Raptors 905 toques. The game, which airs on TSN4, will be hosted by Alexandra Chaves from Family’s The Next Step and Raptors 905 spokesperson Akil Augustine.

Peterborough Petes game in support of Bell Let’s Talk

The first 2,000 fans will receive a Bell Let’s Talk toque at the game at 7:05 pm ET, where a special presentation will take place.

True North Project 11 Summit with Winnipeg Jets

More than 4,000 students will be actively engaged in the conversation around mental health as they gather at Bell MTS Place to join the True North Youth Foundation’s second annual Project 11 Summit in a celebration of youth empowerment and wellbeing.

National Music Centre / Studio Bell

Studio Bell will host a full day of programming focused on mental health and music. Local Albertan artist Lyra Brown will perform a concert alongside a mental health exhibition featuring local community partners, music therapy presentations and a special tour of the venue with National Music Centre CEO Andrew Mosker.

Art and Film features at TIFF

TIFF will feature an interactive day in support of Bell Let’s Talk that explores the ways art and film encourage meaningful connections around mental health, including an afternoon of art-making in the atrium, a free screening of Take Shelter followed by a panel discussion.

Newfoundland and Labrador Government House to light up blue

The Lieutenant Governor’s residence in St. John’s will be lit in blue for Bell Let’s Talk Day.

Reading, Writing and Mental Health

Penguin Random House Canada will host a free public panel at 6:15 pm ET to discuss the importance of reading and writing in relation to mental health. The discussion will be moderated by Dr. David S. Goldbloom, Senior Medical Advisor and psychiatrist at CAMH, and co-author of the bestselling How Can I Help? A Week in My Life as a Psychiatrist. Panelists include Don Gillmor, Jael Richardson and Yasuko Thanh.

Mental Health in the Workplace panel

The CERVO Foundation will host a conference on mental health in the workplace at Université Laval in Québec City at 12 noon ET. Panelists include Allison Rosenthal, General Manager of Otsuka Canada Pharmaceutical, Marie-Nicole Audette, Senior Manager of Workplace Health at Bell, and Marc Corbière, Professor at the CERVO Brain Research Centre.

Minding the Gap: A Conversation on Mental Health & Stigma

The Ismaili Centre Toronto will host a panel event at 6 pm ET led by Karim Mamdani, CEO of Ontario Shores Centre for Mental Health Sciences, where participants will speak about their experiences with mental illness.

Maternal Mental Health Meet-ups

Life with a Baby will be hosting free meet-ups at various Indigo locations across Canada encouraging moms to learn more about the importance of self-care.

Polar bear dip for mental health

A polar bear dip will take place at Black Rock Beach in Halifax at 12 noon AT to support Phoenix Youth mental health programs.

Vancouver City Hall and BC Place to light up blue

Vancouver City Hall and BC Place, home of the Vancouver Whitecaps, will be lit in blue for Bell Let’s Talk Day with electronic messaging about mental health displayed throughout the stadium.

University and college sport games in support of Bell Let’s Talk

More than 200 universities and colleges around the country are hosting almost 400 events and varsity games to encourage the campus mental health conversation.

Bell Let’s Talk flag raisings:

2nd Canadian Division Support Group, Montréal

2nd Canadian Division Support Group, Valcartier

Barrie City Hall

Canadian Forces Leadership and Recruit School, Saint Jean

Cape Breton Regional Municipality City Hall

CFB Halifax

Churchill Town Hall

Corner Brook City Hall

Fredericton City Hall

Guelph City Hall

Halifax City Hall

Hermitage-Sandyville Town Hall

HMCS Prevost, London

Iqaluit City Hall

Kingston City Hall

Ktunaxa Nation

Manitoba Legislature (Memorial Park), Winnipeg

Markham City Hall

Milton City Hall

Mississauga City Hall

Moncton City Hall

Niagara Falls City Hall

North Bay City Hall

Ottawa City Hall

Peterborough City Hall

Peterborough Petes

Pickering City Hall

Pointe-à-Carcy Naval Complex, Québec City

Portage and Main, Winnipeg

Saint John City Hall

Sault Ste. Marie City Hall

St. John’s City Hall

Sudbury City Hall

Toronto City Hall

Toronto Police Service

Toronto Rock

Vaughan City Hall

Whitehorse City Hall

Yellowknife City Hall

Yukon Legislature, Whitehorse

The 5 simple ways to help end the stigma around mental illness

Together, we can all help end the stigma around mental illness with the 5 simple ways developed by Dr. Heather Stuart, the Bell Mental Health and Anti-Stigma Research Chair at Queen’s University:

Language matters – pay attention to the words you use about mental illness

Educate yourself – learn, know and talk more, understand the signs

Be kind – small acts of kindness speak a lot

Listen and ask – sometimes it’s best to just listen

Talk about it – start a dialogue, break the silence

To learn more, please visit Bell.ca/LetsTalk.

Media inquiries

Jacqueline Michelis

613-785-1427

jacqueline.michelis@bell.ca

@Bell_LetsTalk

@Bell_News