b'Mr. Bidens eventual choice is certain to face intensive scrutiny, in part because of Mr. Bidens age. If he is elected, Mr. Biden, currently 77, would be the oldest president ever on the day of his inauguration, and he would turn 80 about halfway through his term, a reality that worries some voters.\n\nMr. Biden has said he is looking for someone who shares his overall approach to governing and who would be prepared for the presidency on Day 1. He has also said he would prefer a running mate with strengths that complement his own, as well as someone who would be willing to challenge him rather than being cowed by the office of the presidency.\n\nFollow-up interviews with poll respondents suggested that many voters are in tune with Mr. Bidens stated approach.\n\nI dont believe that the problems in America can be solved just by having, for example, a black president or a black vice president, said Garfield Campbell, 54, of Scottsdale, Ariz., a poll respondent. Mr. Campbell, who is black, continued, The right person has to be someone that can sort of counterbalance, or add value and strength, to Joe Biden, in areas where he may not be as strong.\n\nMr. Bidens wide lead over President Trump in national polls  he was ahead by 14 percentage points in a Times/Siena survey this week  could give him an unusually free hand in choosing a running mate: He is not desperately seeking a sidekick who could help him shake up the race, as John McCain did in 2008 when he put the charismatic but obscure Alaska governor, Sarah Palin, on his ticket. Nor is Mr. Biden confronting questions about his own readiness for the presidency, as Barack Obama did when he selected Mr. Biden.\n\nChristine Matthews, a Republican pollster who has been critical of Mr. Trump, said that the political impact of Mr. Bidens selection might be limited because he is so far ahead in the race.\n\nIt matters less this year, because of his large lead and his appeal to fairly broad constituencies, said Ms. Matthews, adding that her own view was that Mr. Biden ought to choose a black woman.'