By Tristin Hopper and Meghan Hurley

Although Canadian police have not released the name of the Ottawa shooter, on Wednesday afternoon U.S. sources leaked that the suspect’s name is Michael Zehaf Bibeau, a 32-year-old Canadian who was a recent convert to Islam.

Bibeau’s name was first broadcast by CBS, allegedly via U.S. intelligence sources who had been in contact with their Canadian counterparts.

Later, Reuters also cited U.S. sources in confirming Bibeau was a recent convert to Islam and may have been born with the name Michael Joseph Hall.

The suspect—who was reportedly born and raised in Quebec—has a lengthy criminal past in Montreal, Aylmer, QC and British Columbia.

A Zehaf-Bibeau resided in Montreal’s Villeray-Saint Michel-Park Extension borough between 2004 and 2006.

His most recent court record indicates Zehaf-Bibeau fell off the map for three years, as far as the Montreal courthouse was concerned, because he failed to show up in court on a simple marijuana charge that had been filed against him on March 14, 2006.

He turned up in court more than three years later, on Dec. 12, 2009, to plead guilty to the charge. As part of his sentence he was granted an absolute discharge. (Under that charge the man was charged and convicted under the name Michael Bibeau-Zehaf.)

His most serious conviction came on Dec. 7, 2004, when Zehaf-Bibeau pleaded guilty to possession of phencyclidine, also known as PCP, and was sentenced to a 60-day prison term.

On the same day, he also pleaded guilty to marijuana possession and was sentenced to one day in prison. He has also been convicted for failing to comply with conditions of a release.

In court records related to another charge for breach of conditions, Zehaf-Bibeau listed his address as being in Aylmer, QC, a city of 40,000 just 23 minutes west of Downtown Ottawa.

And, just two years ago, Bibeau was on the West Coast.

JUST IN: U.S. officials tell CBS News the name of the dead Ottawa shooting suspect is Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, a Canadian born in 1982. — CBS Evening News (@CBSEveningNews) October 22, 2014

CBC News Ottawa has independently confirmed that the gunman who was shot and killed is Michael Zehaf-Bibeau. #cbcOTT #OTTnews — CBC Ottawa (@CBCOttawa) October 22, 2014

According to British Columbia Court records, a “Michael Joseph Paul Zehaf Bibeau” committed robbery in Vancouver on December 16, 2011, and also racked up a lesser charge of uttering threats.

As of Tuesday evening, Vancouver Police were working with Ottawa law enforcement to pass on information about the suspect’s time in B.C.

“The Vancouver Police Department, along with the BC RCMP, are working together to assist an Ottawa City Police and RCMP National Security investigation,” wrote Vancouver Police spokesman Randy Fincham late Wednesday afternoon. “Due to the ongoing investigation, there is little information we can share at this time,” he added.

Citing confidential sources, the Globe and Mail reported Tuesday that Bibeau was a “high-risk traveller” whose passport had been seized to prevent him from travelling abroad to join ISIS fighters in Iraq or Syria.

On Tuesday, the RCMP confirmed that Martin Rouleau, the man accused of running over two Canadian Forces soldiers in Saint-Jean-Sur-Richelieu, had been one of 90 suspects under similar observation.

Nevertheless, as of Tuesday the RCMP had not confirmed that they had been monitoring Zehaf-Bibeau.

Unlike other Canadian homegrown terrorist suspects, Zehaf-Bibeau had no obvious web presence: No Twitter account, no Facebook page, and no Jihadist scrawls in random blogs or YouTube comment sections.

Witnesses say they saw Bibeau wearing a black coat with blue jeans, according to the CBC. The same report says gun used in the attack was a double-barrel shotgun.

Although, if the example of Saint-Jean-Sur-Richelieu terrorist suspect Martin Rouleau is any indication, he may have changed his name following his conversion to Islam.

Before he allegedly ran over two Canadian soldiers in the parking lot of a Service Canada location, Rouleau reportedly changed his name to Ahmad LeConverti (Ahmad The Converted).

Although there are no Zehafs listed in Canadian phone books, the name Bibeau is common throughout Quebec.

On Wednesday, Quebecer Michaël Bideau noted on his Facebook page that he shared virtually the same name and birth year of the alleged shooter.

“You will have hate messages on your Facebook before long!!” wrote one of his friends, although as of Wednesday night nobody appears to have mistaken him for the shooting suspect.

Early Tuesday afternoon, @V_IMS, a French-language pro-ISIS social media account posted a grainy photo that was allegedly of the Ottawa shooter.

The image, which was apparently snapped from a TV screen using a cell phone, showed a dark-haired man wearing a scarf and holding a light hunting rifle.

Witness accounts from the scene say that the shooter was armed with a double-barrelled shotgun.

According to reports from Ottawa Police, however, the shooter was armed with a 30-30 rifle, a caliber common to lever-action hunting rifles that would be consistent with the firearm held by the man featured in the Tweeted image.

Twitter suspended the account shortly before 5 p.m. ET.