Published: 22:02 EST, 5 January 2019 | Updated: 04:43 EST, 6 January 2019

Drivers could find themselves in the back of a paddy wagon just for enjoying a traditional Easter snack.

Hot cross buns appear to give a false positive reading for alcohol in breath tests, even if the driver hasn't had a single sip to drink.

A truck driver demonstrated how the popular festive treat - which hit Australian supermarket shelves on Boxing Day - affects breath readings.

A truck driver demonstrated how the popular festive treat - which has just gone on sale in Australian supermarkets months ahead of Easter - affects breath readings

The woman first blew into a hand-held breathalyzer and showed it produced a 0 BAL reading as a control test.

She then took just one bite of a standard fruit hot cross bun, swallowed, and tried the test again on the same machine.

This time the screen showed a reading of 0.018 - meaning just one bun would likely produce a result of more the legal limit of 0.05.

'So, be really careful this Easter,' she told followers of the Facebook page for female truck drivers in northwest Western Australia.

The woman took just one bite of a standard fruit hot cross bun, swallowed, and tried the test again on the same machine

This time the screen showed a reading of 0.018 - meaning just one bun would likely produce a result of more the legal limit of 0.05

Numerous other foods would also produce a reading like this, but return to zero relatively soon after consumption.

The false positive would be quickly recognised at the follow-up test at a police station, but would hugely inconvenience the driver.

The reading is given because the yeast used to make the buns turns into alcohol in the digestion process, and the fruit inside contains trace amounts of alcohol.

One commenter recalled how she was haul on to a booze bus after eating a piece of tiramisu minutes before encountering police.

'I had literally just opened it and taken a mouthful before I came across the bus. It was still sitting on the seat,' she said.