b'State Highlights\n\nBy Ken Belson\n\nIf there was an election night outcome that was all but certain, it was that Representative Paul D. Ryan stood a good chance of remaining in Washington. The vice-presidential candidate would have done so if Mitt Romney had been elected president. But if the Republican presidential ticket lost  as it ultimately did  Mr. Ryan knew he would probably retain his seat representing the states First Congressional District. He won re-election handily on Tuesday.\n\nDespite Mr. Ryans Wisconsin pedigree, President Obama won the state by nearly six percentage points, thanks, at least in part, to support from labor unions and voters who approved of the auto industry bailout. A majority of voters in exit polls also blamed President George W. Bush, not Mr. Obama, for the economys problems.\n\nMr. Obamas victory in the state helped Tammy Baldwin, the Democratic candidate who won the Senate seat vacated by Herb Kohl, a four-term Democrat. Ms. Baldwin, a Democratic representative, beat Tommy Thompson, a former Republican governor and a secretary of health and human services under President Bush. (With her victory, Ms. Baldwin is poised to become the first openly gay member of the Senate.) Mr. Thompson was dogged by taunts his 38-year-old son, Jason, had made about President Obama. (Jason Thompson had to apologize after twice suggesting that voters might send President Obama back to Chicago  or Kenya.)\n\nOf Wisconsins eight Congressional races, three were safely retained by Democrats and three by Republicans, including Mr. Ryans seat. The Seventh and Eighth Districts in the northern part of the state were the most contested, and Republicans held on to both of them.\n\nThe Seventh District seat, once held by David R. Obey, the senior Democrat, was won by the Republican incumbent, Sean P. Duffy, who has served in the House since 2010. Mr. Duffy, a former reality TV star from MTVs Real World, faced former State Senator Pat Kreitlow, a onetime television anchor. Redistricting made the district more Republican.\n\nReid Ribble, an incumbent Republican, held on to his seat in the Eighth District.'