b'But once Mrs. Clinton began running for president, Mr. Scaife  and his thick checkbook  remained on the sidelines, surprising many who predicted he would leap at the chance to dredge up new, potentially scandalous information about her.\n\nThat apparent indifference seems to have morphed into tepid enthusiasm for her.\n\nDuring the meeting at The Tribune-Review, Mr. Scaife said in his article, he found common ground with Mrs. Clinton on the need to pull troops out of Iraq; on the bumbling federal efforts to rebuild New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina; and on the increasing instability in Pakistan and South America.\n\nAides to Mrs. Clinton said they had not known what to expect from the March 24 meeting with Mr. Scaife and the staff of his newspaper. But sitting next to Mr. Scaife, Mrs. Clinton quickly broke the ice, remarking that she had agreed to the meeting because it was so counterintuitive, I just thought it would be fun to do. The line drew laughter from those in the room.\n\nThere is, of course, a healthy dose of skepticism over Mr. Scaifes motives. Some wonder if he is rooting for the candidate whom some Republicans view as easier to defeat in the general election.\n\nI wouldnt trust Scaifes motives in this, said Robert M. Shrum, a longtime Democratic consultant who is not aligned with any campaign this year.\n\nMr. Scaife could not be reached for comment Sunday. Asked about Mr. Scaifes article, Kathleen Strand, a spokeswoman for Mrs. Clinton, said, As she showed in New York and as a senator, Hillary Clinton is in the solutions business and has demonstrated the ability to bridge old divides and get things done. Winning over Mr. Scaife is just another example.\n\nMr. Scaife wrote that he was not ready to endorse Mrs. Clinton over Senator Barack Obama of Illinois in the Pennsylvania primary. Mr. Obama, he noted, has yet to meet with the Tribune-Review staff.\n\nWord of the meeting came as the Clinton campaign continued to insist that the senator would stay in the race, despite Mr. Obamas lead in delegates. On Sunday, one of her top backers, Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, said he would love to see Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton on a ticket together.'