Update 03/08/03 : From Nina Novenche: As of February 4th 2003, The tumor in Michael's head is stable. Praise God. Michael is currently on Chemotherapy and will start a stronger dose. We Thank everyone for their prayers and Hope everyone will continue to pray. We would also like to thank everyone who signed his guest book or submitted a prayer. May God bless you.

Nina



The test of true prayer and faith is when we have the strength to continue to uphold our love and determination to see any given situation through. While Michael has seen miraculous prayer bring him back physically time and again, it is by God's grace he is still with us.



I implore all those of faith who have been following Michael's progress to continue to pray as fervently each day as they did from the first time they heard about Michael; regardless of whether his health has stab i lized or growth on some level is identified. Until the tumor is completely healed and gone from his body, our petitions in prayer are the only medicine Michael can never have too much of. May God recognize the resolve in our hearts and bless Michael with perfect and complete healing. Beautiful words from Brother Henry: Praying for Michael. We serve a God who cannot fail. Ask, He says, and you will receive. Seek, He says, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened... Father, We ask in Jesus' Name, the Name above all names, that you would

touch young Michael. Send Your Holy Spirit to remove the tumor completely and restore him to perfect health. And, Father, we know that You are omnipotent and can do anything and that it is not your will that little ones should suffer. So, Father, grant the request of Your humble servants I pray, and let not Your Holy Name be evil spoken of for denying it. Also, Lord Jesus, I humbly remind You that You have promised us that if we ask anything in Your Name that it would be done for us by Our Father, which is in heaven. Amen In Christ, Bro. Henry True miracles, the type the church investigates and verifies, really do exist. Every day waits for the power of our combined faith for one to occur. I believe there is one such miracle waiting for Michael out there, just waiting to be realized. And so it is very important now that we continue to pray, say novenas, light candles, and send our healing energies not only out of love for Michael, but because Michael is so loved by God. Please, continue to pray as fervently as ever before for Michael. Our prayers have been heard, and as I said before the more prayer -the more power, the more power - the greater the miracle. Thank you all very much. Michael still contends with the daily threats that any challenged immune system must deal with, such as fighting off fever, colds and sinus infections. Michael has a bubble in his head from his shunt and hopes some day to be free of this debilitating illness. All of us who know the joy of watching our children run wildly around the house in play can appreciate the depth of Michael's wish to no longer be ill and to play with the freedom and total abandonment that childhood allows. Please pray for Michael's complete and perfect healing. If you can, please send a short prayer request to those you know will take it to heart and have time to pray, say a novena, light a candle, send healing love and good vibrations for little Michael and his family during this fight for Michael's life, as prayers are seen in the heavens as music to God's ears. The e-mail link below will put you in direct contact with Michael's grandmother, Nina Novenche. You can also sign and view the Guest Book below. The guest book will only allow 200 characters (a little less than three lines) so please keep this in mind as you leave your message. If you would like to leave a longer note to the family, click on the e-mail link below. If you would like to send cards of support to Michael and the family, they can be sent to: Michael Novenche

c/o Nina Novenche

28 Appletree Lane

Clifton Park, New York 12065