b"A. Senator, I don't think I reached a conclusion. Law clerks don't have to vote. Q. No, but they surely think. A. Yes, they do.\n\nQ. I'll be darned. SENATOR KENNEDY\n\nSENATOR EDWARD M. KENNEDY, Democrat of Massachusetts: I'd like to direct your attention to the issues that were raised after the end of our hearing back at the earlier consideration for your nomination to go on the Supreme Court and this is related to the whole question of voter intimidation in Phoenix.\n\nAs you remember, these allegations came up after the conclusion of our hearings, Senator Bayh, Senator Hart, myself, inquired of you about your own conduct and your activities during the voter intimidation cases. At that time Chairman Eastland chose not to reopen the hearings. We did receive responses to our questions but we never did have an opportunity to go through the various allegations and charges during the course of that hearing or any direct opportunity to inquire of you about those particular allegations and charges. And it's my understanding and that these are quotes that are put in chronological order that are taken from the responses which you gave to us. A. Senator, I have a copy with me. Q. [ reading ] ''In 1958, I became involved in the election day program on quite short notice spent all the day at Republican County Headquarters in Phoenix. In 1960, on election day, I believe that I spent most of the day in county headquarters. In that year, however, we had enough other lawyers available in county headquarters so that I probably spent some of the day going to precincts where a dispute had risen and attempts to resolve it. With respect to 1962 on election day my recollection is that I spent most of the day in Republican County headquarters. However, I think that on several occasions in 1962, just as in 1960, I went to precincts where disputes had arisen in an effort to resolve them. With respect to 1964, my recollection is that on election day, during this particular election I spent all of my time in county headquarters. In none of these years did I personally engage in challenging the qualification of any voters. I have not, either in the general election of 1964 or in any other election at Bethune Precinct or in any other precinct, either myself harassed or intimidated voters or encouraged or approved of harassment or intimidation of voters by other persons.''\n\nAnd I believe, as part of that record, you actually signed an affidavit which I read now: ''I have read the affidavits of Jordan Harris and Robert Tate, both notarized in Maricopa County. So far as these affidavits pertain to me they are false. I have not, either in general election of 1964 or in any other election, at Bethune Precinct or in any other precinct, either myself harassed or intimidated voters or encouraged or approved the harassment or intimidation of voters by other persons. Signed William Rehnquist, 17 November 71.''\n\nNow, several witnesses have come forward, made statements about your activity as a leader in the Republican ballot security program in Phoenix, in Arizona, in 19 --, in the early 1960's. We have, we'll hear, as I understand it, at least it's been requested, we hear from Mr. Pine, Charlie Pine, describe your activities at Bethune Precinct in 1962 or '64 as follows: ''I saw him then, I saw him there and I saw him approach at least one voter. If my memory is correct, two. He asked them, he said, 'Pardon me. Are you a qualified voter?' to this black gentleman. The man said 'Yes.' And he said 'Do you have any credentials to indicate that you are?' And the man said, 'No.' And he said, 'Well, then, perhaps there's a question of whether or not you're qualified.' And the man, instead of standing in line, if he had advanced, by that time he got to the voting table, he would have found his name on the voting list. But he turned on his heels and left the voting precinct. We felt, I felt, that the whole purpose of that was to discourage blacks from voting.'' Do you know Mr. Pine, Charlie Pine? A. I don't believe so, Senator. It's been a long time, some 20 years ago, but the name does not presently ring a bell. Questions About Others\n\nQ. Do you know any reason why he might make that statement?\n\nA. Since I don't know him, I certainly don't know any reason why he would make that statement.\n\nQ. Mr. Quincy Hopper has stated that he was at the Bethune school on election day in 1964 and that you were there at the school having voters read from the Constitution to test for literacy. Do you know a Mr. Quincy Hopper? A. No, I don't, Senator. Q. Do you know any reason why Quincy Hopper would make that statement? A. No, I don't. Q. Rev. Benjamin Brooks, who's the pastor of the South Minister Presbyterian Church, has stated that he's familiar with you. He saw you at the Julian Precinct, where Pastor Brooks was an inspector on election day the year that Paul Fanon and Paul Morrison were running for Arizona governor. And Reverend Brooks stated that on that day you challenged black elderly working class voters for literacy by having them read the Constitution out loud. Do you know Reverend Brooks?"