Hundreds of dog-lovers from Britain, the U.S., Canada, Spain and even the Philippines have offered to re-home a pet who was found abandoned at a train station with his own suitcase.

Kai the Shar-Pei crossbreed is now the most popular dog in the Scottish SPCA's history after he was found tied to railings outside Ayr station with a case containing a toy, bowl, food and a pillow.

Just like Paddington Bear, he was saved after a human took pity on him - and the two-year-old has since been lapping up the attention at the charity's rehoming centre in Glasgow

Staff have received more than 100 phone calls and more than 80 e-mails offering him a new home.

Scroll down for video

Enjoying the attention: Kai the Shar-Pei crossbreed at the Scottish SPCA's rehoming centre in Glasgow

Character: The charity has had more than 100 phone calls and 80 emails - but Kai (above) will stay in Scotland

Assistant manager Katrina Cavanagh said Kai's success had taken staff by surprise. 'We just can't believe how big this became,' she said. 'But then, it's not every day you get a dog abandoned with his own suitcase'

The delighted staff face days of work to whittle down the flood of applications after poignant photos of Kai went viral - but they insist the new owner will be in Scotland.

Assistant manager Katrina Cavanagh said: 'We've had offers from America, the Philippines, Canada and England and we're trying to work our way through them.

'We've had good responses in the past but this is off the scale. We've never had offers from the other side of the world before.

'What we're saying to people is fill out a questionnaire, and Anna the manager and I will have a wee look through, whittle them down and make a decision. It'll be hard but we'll get there.

'We just can't believe how big this became, but then, it's not every day you get a dog abandoned with his own suitcase.'

Kai has been compared to Paddington bear after his ordeal, which has prompted an investigation by the animal welfare charity.

Until it is complete, he will not be handed over to a new family, so it could be some time before he is adopted.

Vow: The charity will rehome Kai in the country where he was found abandoned on railings at a train station

New friends: Kai investigating the characters on a donations bucket for the animal rescue charity

Hello! Kai in his new lodgings, which he has been in and out of constantly because of all the attention

Grumpy? Kai needs surgery for entropions - inward-curling eyelids - but his fans have already raised the cash

He also needs surgery for entropions, inward-curling eyelids, which the charity will pay for.

There has been an enthusiastic response on social media, with even author Irvine Welsh tweeting: 'If I was in Ayr that boy would be coming home with Welshy. Yes he would! Yes he would!’

Seizing on the publicity, the Scottish SPCA set up a JustGiving page yesterday to raise the £1,000 needed for Kai's operation - and it has already raised almost double that.

All leftover funds will go towards other animals in the care of the charity.

Ms Cavanagh added: 'He's loved the attention. He's been in and out of his kennel so many times being filmed and having his picture taken. He's a very happy boy and he's behaved perfectly.

'We're also seeing a boost in donations. A lot of people have come here in person and mentioned him.'

Animal welfare experts warned his owners could face a lifetime ban from keeping animals after the 'cruel' incident.

Scottish SPCA inspector Stewart Taylor said: 'The dog is microchipped and we were able to find out his name is Kai.

Lonely: This photo of Kai the Shar-Pei crossbreed, who was found at Ayr station with his toy, food and bowl in a suitcase last Friday, was shared around the world and prompted an outpouring of generosity

Cared for: Station staff looked after Kai until the Scottish SPCA arrived at the scene on Friday

Inundated: Some of the places around the world which have offered new homes... but Kai will stay in Scotland

'We contacted the owner registered to the microchip, who stated they had sold Kai on Gumtree in 2013. Unfortunately they could not tell us the address of the person who bought him.

'This case highlights the potential consequences of selling an animal online, as it often leads to the impulse buying of pets that people know very little about.

'Regardless of the fact Kai was left with his belongings, this was still a cruel incident and we are keen to identify the person responsible.

'If anyone can help we would ask them to get in touch as soon as possible.

'Kai is around two to three years old and is a lovely dog with a nice nature. We will look after him until we can find him a permanent and loving home.'

Station staff looked after Kai until the Scottish SPCA arrived at the scene on Friday.

Abandoning an animal is an offence under the Animal Health and Welfare (Scotland) Act 2006.

Anyone found guilty of doing so can be banned from keeping animals for a fixed period or life.

Do you know Kai's previous owners? Call 0203 615 3300 or e-mail dan.bloom@mailonline.co.uk

Good boy! Kai with senior animal expert Alan Grant. Staff hope to find him a new owner later this month