Michael Abdul Zehaf Bibeau Pictures: Photos of Alleged ISIS-Linked Gunman in Canada

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau has been identified as the gunman in Ottawa who shot a soldier before firing shots in Centre Block, and people are looking for pictures of him.

Zehaf-Bibeau appeared to have no online presence–a term that basically refers to having accounts on social media or being reported on before–prior to being named as the shooter.

The only picture so far that allegedly shows the 32-year-old comes from an account linked to ISIS, or the Islamic State.

The photo has not been verified.

It shows a man holding a gun, in casual clothing with a scarf covering the lower part of his face.

More pictures will be posted as they come through.

Witnesses said the gunman who killed a soldier at the National War Memorial before entering Parliament and firing off more shots was dressed in all black and wearing a scarf around his face.

An Ottawa police officer runs with his weapon drawn outside Parliament Hill in Ottawa on Wednesday Oct. 22, 2014. (AP Photo/The Canadian Press, Sean Kilpatrick)

In this photo provided by Conservative MP Nina Grewal, members of Parliament barricade themselves in a meeting room on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, Canada, Wednesday, Oct. 22, 2014, after shots were fired in the building. A gunman with a scarf over his face shot to death a Canadian soldier standing guard at the nation’s war memorial Wednesday, then stormed Parliament in a hail of gunfire before he was killed by the usually ceremonial sergeant-at-arms, authorities and witnesses said. (AP Photo/The Canadian Press, Nina Grewal)

Paramedics and police wheel away a shooting victim at the National War Memorial near Parliament Hill in Ottawa Wednesday Oct. 22, 2014. (AP Photo/The Canadian Press, Adrian Wyld)

Tony Zobl, 35, told the Canadian Press news agency that he witnessed the soldier being gunned down from his fourth-floor window directly above the National War Memorial.

“I looked out the window and saw a shooter, a man dressed all in black with a kerchief over his nose and mouth and something over his head as well, holding a rifle and shooting an honor guard in front of the cenotaph point-blank, twice,” Zobl said.

“The honor guard dropped to the ground, and the shooter kind of raised his arms in triumph holding the rifle.”

CBS says that Michael’s full name was Michael Abdul Zehaf Bibeau–and that he dropped the Michael after converting to Islam. At other times he apparently dropped the Abdul.

MORE:

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau ID’d as Canadian Shooting Suspect in Ottawa

ISIS Behind Shooting in Canada? Some Blame Islamic State for Attack at Parliament Hill