NYC relaxes response to marijuana possession

Elected officials and activists in New York are reacting positively to the city's new policy that loosens how it treats people found in possession of marijuana.

Many had earlier said that young minority males often were the subject of arrests for marijuana possession, and asserted that punishment for what they considered a relatively minor crime could often affect a person's entire future.

"In light of the fact that there have been a disproportionate amount of blacks and browns subjected to low level marijuana arrests, as well as the fact that many cities around the country are legalizing marijuana use, it is timely for the City of New York to revise its policies," said the Rev. Al Sharpton, a New York City-based activist, in a statement.

"With excessive gun violence, hard drug trafficking, and other criminal ills that have plagued our community, I feel that the police ought to concentrate on things of importance rather than things that are now being legalized in many places around the country," he said.

Starting Nov. 19, anyone found with less than 25 grams of the drug on them will be issued a summons rather than being arrested, the administration of Mayor Bill de Blasio announced Monday. The only caveat is there must not be a warrant out for the person's arrest and they must not be found near a location that presents extra concern, such as a school, according to the city.

"This new policy will reduce unnecessary arrests for minor marijuana possession and put an end to an era where many of young New Yorkers were being arrested and saddled with criminal records for minor violations," de Blasio said. "Today's action is the latest in a series of steps Commissioner Bratton and I have taken to rebuild the relationship between the NYPD and the communities they serve. We are also enhancing public safety with this new initiative by directing police resources towards more serious crime, and not wasting officer time processing unnecessary arrests."

Voices of dissent with the current policy were underscored by Brooklyn District Attorney Ken Thompson, who said in July that he would not prosecute low-level marijuana possession cases because of the concerns about how such arrests can affect the lives of young, minority men.

Five black and Hispanic members of the New York City Council applauded the mayor's move and said that on Oct. 31, they jointly sent a letter to the mayor and Police Commissioner Bill Bratton calling for an end to such arrests.

"The mayor and commissioner have taken a significant step towards ensuring fewer New Yorkers face the consequences that arrest records bring," read a joint statement from the council members: Ritchie Torres, Rafael Espinal, Carlos Menchaca, Antonio Reynoso and Donovan Richards.

"We commend the mayor and commissioner for this move, and we will continue to monitor its implementation," the council members said. "The relationship between police and communities, particularly communities of color, frayed significantly during the previous administration. Today's announcement will make substantial progress towards rebuilding that relationship. We look forward to working with the Mayor and Commissioner to implement additional measures needed to restore trust between police and communities."