Scottish animal welfare charity trying to track down owner who abandoned Kai, the Shar Pei pup, leashed to a rail at Ayr station

This article is more than 5 years old

This article is more than 5 years old

An animal shelter is trying to track down the owner who abandoned a young Shar Pei at a railway station in Scotland, leaving him leashed to a rail with a suitcase full of his belongings.

The Scottish Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), an animal welfare charity, said the wrinkly-faced crossbreed was discovered last Friday at Ayr railway station. His suitcase was packed with a pillow, a toy, some food and a bowl.

The dog was microchipped, so the charity was able to find the dog’s name, Kai. The group was also able to track Kai’s previous owner whom the microchip was registered to.

His previous owners said they sold him on the classified ads website, Gumtree, in 2013. The were unable to provide the charity with the address of the person who bought Kai.

Facebook Twitter Pinterest The charity said it will care for the dog until they find him a permanent home. Photograph: SPCA

If found, the owner could be charged under Scotland’s Animal Health and Welfare Act.

Scottish SPCA inspector Stewart Taylor said the case highlights the unfortunate consequences of selling an animal online.

“Regardless of the fact Kai was left with his belongings, this was still a cruel incident and we are keen to identify the person responsible,” he said “If anyone can help we would ask them to get in touch as soon as possible.”

The Scottish SPCA said Kai is a “lovely dog with a nice nature”, and estimate that he is between two to three years old. The charity said it will care for the dog until they find him a permanent home.

Ben Supple, a spokesman with the charity, told the Guardian on Tuesday afternoon that the prospect of Kai finding a loving home looks promising.

“We haven’t as yet found a home for Kai though we’ve been inundated with offers and will ensure we find him the right owner,” Supple said.

Anyone with information about Kai is urged to contact the charity’s animal helpline at 03000 999 999.