Hornwood, SC | A transgender male student has been suspended indefinitely after being accused of pretending to be transgender as an excuse to use the girl’s shower during gym class.

Soccamee high school officials were alarmed by the student’s indecent behavior after several students and parents lodged complaints and reported the “immoral behavior” to school administrators.

The transgender male student was recently allowed by school officials to use all female washrooms, including having access to the girl’s locker room, after he had asked to be treated as a biological female.

The transgender male student also allegedly bragged about how the school would let him take showers with the girls just because he “wore a wig” and “painted his nails” according to several students.

“He always had this huge erection while we were in the shower, I never understood why the school allowed a boy to be in the girls’ shower with us,” one female student told local reporters.

Soccamee high school nurse, Helena Ferguson, has already reported that three female students claim they have been impregnated by the transgender male student but believes others could follow.

Inappropriate behavior

Some students even reported being inappropriately touched by the transgender male student in the shower after gym class.

“He told me that if I didn’t wash my vagina properly I could catch rabies and started to show me how by washing the inside of my vagina with his two hands and a bar of soap,” one student admitted.

Several female students admitted having consensual sexual relationships with the transgender male student but others described him as a “sexual predator.”

“He once tried to put his dick in my asshole while I was bending over and pretended he had slipped in the shower,” added another.

Orangeburg County Sheriff’s Office has opened a formal investigation into the allegations and the transgender male student, who is currently suspended indefinitely from attending Soccamee high school, is temporarily not allowed to enter the school perimeter or come in contact with fellow classmates until further notice.

.