On Sept.19, Omar Gonzalez, a homeless veteran who served three tours in Iraq as a sniper, jumped the White House fence and entered the executive mansion with a knife. While initial reports from the Secret Service said the man had been “physically apprehended” after entering through the North Portico, the Washington Post’s Carol D. Leonnig reported that Gonzalez made it much further, running past the stairway, across the 80-foot East Room and to the doorway of the Green Room, where he was tackled by an agent – who was off-duty at the time.

“This is unacceptable and I take full responsibility,” Secret Service Director Julia Pierson told the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on Tuesday. Pierson faced an intense grilling by bipartisan members of the committee, including Republican Rep. Jason Chaffetz of Utah, who heads the subcommittee on national security. “I want it to be crystal clear,” he said, “you make a run and a dash for the White House, we’re going to take you down. I want overwhelming force.”

[GALLERY: Cartoons about Congress]

The New Yorker’s Amy Davidson said the committee was right to question Pierson on the Secret Service’s fumbled response plan, but warned that the kind of brute force Chaffetz alluded to would be a step in the wrong direction. “[S]imply adding more fences and armed-camp features – making the White House more of a disheartening militarized bubble – could be counterproductive,” she wrote. “The issue here,” she added, “is basic competency, not super-spy technology.”

U.S. News & World Report's Susan Milligan agreed that a militarized White House wouldn’t keep the first family any safer, nor would it project an image of American openness. “Such events are discomforting,” Milligan wrote, “but have given people license to demand further militarization of our communities – and Washington, while being the seat of government, is still a community.”

[MORE: Cartoons on Defense Spending]

As made clear by family and friends, Gonzalez was troubled. He was prescribed anti-depressants, suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder and, according to a relative, injured his foot while on active duty in Baghdad. Dan Lamothe raised this point in a Washington Post piece but identified the vet-turned-criminal as “a common narrative that frustrates many veterans.” While Lamothe acknowledges that Gonzalez was dealing with PTSD, he suggests “it may be best to reserve judgment” until all the facts are available.

In the meantime, Rep. John Mica, R-Fla., suggested the Secret Service look into an alternative security plan, ThinkProgress reported. “Have you heard of these guys?” Mica asked at the Oversight Committee hearing, holding up a sign for the Florida-based home alarm system ADT and eliciting laughs from the room. “It is not very costly,” he said, adding that a vegetation barrier of Spanish bayonet, a plant known for its pointy and sharp leaves, would make for “quite a greeting” to any future intruders.

