Video courtesy of:  FBCFilmsHB 1274 authorizes the state of Georgia to execute citizens by guillotine:Georgia House of Representatives – 1995/1996 Sessions HB 1274 – Death penalty; guillotine provisions Code Sections – 17-10-38/ 17-10-44 A BILL TO BE ENTITLED AN ACT1- 1 To amend Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Title 17 of the Official1- 2 Code of Georgia Annotated, relating to the death penalty1- 3 generally, so as to provide a statement of legislative1- 4 policy; to provide for death by guillotine; to provide for1- 5 applicability; to repeal conflicting laws; and for other1- 6 purposes.1- 8 The General Assembly finds that while prisoners condemned to1- 9 death may wish to donate one or more of their organs for1-10 transplant, any such desire is thwarted by the fact that1-11 electrocution makes all such organs unsuitable for1-12 transplant. The intent of the General Assembly in enacting1-13 this legislation is to provide for a method of execution1-14 which is compatible with the donation of organs by a1-15 condemned prisoner.source:  http://www.cephas-library.com/nwo/nwo_guillotine_provisions_in_georgia.htmlOne question to consider:If Georgia was planning to utilize guillotines as a method of execution, how could this be carried out without purchasing guillotines?NOTE: Special Agent Ted Gunderson wrote the original of this article prior to his death in 2011.http://www.myfoxmemphis.com/story/18527976/former-memphis-fbi-chief-diesby, Ted Gunderson (Retired FBI Agent)Think about this; Why does the US government need 30,000 Guillotines and over 600 Million rounds of hollow point bullets?There are over 800 prison camps in the United States. All fully operational and ready to receive prisoners. They are all staffed and even surrounded by full-time guards. But they are all empty. These camps are to be operated by FEMA (Federal Emergency Management Agency) should Martial Law need to be implemented in the United States and all it would take is a presidential signature on a proclamation and the attorney general’s signature on a warrant to which a list of names is attached. Ask yourself if you really want to be on THE list.The Rex 84 Program was established on the reasoning that if a “mass exodus” of illegal aliens crossed the Mexican/US border, they would be quickly rounded up and detained in detention centers by FEMA. Rex 84 allowed many military bases to be closed down and to be turned into prisons. Operation Cable Splicer and Garden Plot are the two sub programs which will be implemented once the Rex 84 program is initiated for its proper purpose. Garden Plot is the program to control the population. Cable Splicer is the program for an orderly takeover of the state and local governments by the federal government. FEMA is the executive arm of the coming police state and thus will head up all operations. The Presidential Executive Orders already listed on the Federal Register also are part of the legal framework for this operation.The camps all have railroad facilities as well as roads leading to and from the detention facilities. Many also have an airport nearby. The majority of the camps can house a population of 20,000 prisoners. Currently, the largest of these facilities is just outside of Fairbanks, Alaska. The Alaskan facility is a massive mental health facility and can hold approximately 2 million people. Now let’s review the justification for any actions taken. Executive Orders associated with FEMA that would suspend the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. These Executive Orders have been on record for nearly 30 years and could be enacted by the stroke of a Presidential pen:EXECUTIVE ORDER 10990 allows the government to take over all modes of transportation and control of highways and seaports.EXECUTIVE ORDER 10995 allows the government to seize and control the communication media.EXECUTIVE ORDER 10997 allows the government to take over all electrical power, gas, petroleum, fuels and minerals.EXECUTIVE ORDER 10998 allows the government to seize all means of transportation, including personal cars, trucks or vehicles of any kind and total control over all highways, seaports, and waterways.EXECUTIVE ORDER 10999 allows the government to take over all food resources and farms.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11000 allows the government to mobilize civilians into work brigades under government supervision.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11001 allows the government to take over all health, education and welfare functions.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11002 designates the Postmaster General to operate a national registration of all persons.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11003 allows the government to take over all airports and aircraft, including commercial aircraft.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11004 allows the Housing and Finance Authority to relocate communities, build new housing with public funds, designate areas to be abandoned, and establish new locations for populations.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11005 allows the government to take over railroads, inland waterways and public storage facilities.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11051 specifies the responsibility of the Office of Emergency Planning and gives authorization to put all Executive Orders into effect in times of increased international tensions and economic or financial crisis.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11310 grants authority to the Department of Justice to enforce the plans set out in Executive Orders, to institute industrial support, to establish judicial and legislative liaison, to control all aliens, to operate penal and correctional institutions, and to advise and assist the President.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11049 assigns emergency preparedness function to federal departments and agencies, consolidating 21 operative Executive Orders issued over a fifteen year period.EXECUTIVE ORDER 11921 allows the Federal Emergency Preparedness Agency to develop plans to establish control over the mechanisms of production and distribution, of energy sources, wages, salaries, credit and the flow of money in U.S. financial institution in any undefined national emergency. It also provides that when a state of emergency is declared by the President, Congress cannot review the action for six months. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has broad powers in every aspect of the nation. General Frank Salzedo, chief of FEMA’s Civil Security Division stated in a 1983 conference that he saw FEMA’s role as a “new frontier in the protection of individual and governmental leaders from assassination, and of civil and military installations from sabotage and/or attack, as well as prevention of dissident groups from gaining access to U.S. opinion, or a global audience in times of crisis.” FEMA’s powers were consolidated by President Carter to incorporate the National Security Act of 1947 allows for the strategic relocation of industries, services, government and other essential economic activities, and to rationalize the requirements for manpower, resources and production facilities. 1950 Defense Production Act gives the President sweeping powers over all aspects of the economy. Act of August 29, 1916 authorizes the Secretary of the Army, in time of war, to take possession of any transportation system for transporting troops, material, or any other purpose related to the emergency. International Emergency Economic Powers Act enables the President to seize the property of a foreign country or national. These powers were transferred to FEMA in a sweeping consolidation in 1979.If playback doesn't begin shortly, try restarting your device.Your browser doesn't support full screen. Learn MorePlayback isn't supported on this device.ShareAn error occurred while retrieving sharing information. Please try again later.Switch camera