A “tempting eyes” ban has just been announced in Saudi Arabia that further represses women more than they already are. In this part of the world, women are known to cover their bodies completely from head-to-toe. The eyes are one of the only parts of their body that are seen in public.

Opposing Views reports that women who have eyes “with a nice shape and makeup” could be deemed too tempting to other men, and police can make them wear veils. Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice announced this decision a few days ago. It’s one bound to get universal criticism.

Assyrian International News Agency covered what the Saudi Arabian committee’s spokesman has to say about the new law. Sheikh Motlab al Nabet, explains that Saudi police “have a right” to make a woman cover her eyes.

“The men of the committee will interfere to force women to cover their eyes, especially the tempting ones. We have the right to do so.”

This development has sparked the question of what defines “tempting eyes” and how will women be evaluated on having them? An unidentified journalist in the nation best describes what Saudi police are going after.

“Uncovered eyes with a nice shape and makeup. Or even without makeup, if they are beautiful, the woman will be in trouble.”

He adds that a lot of people in Saudi Arabia will be very upset about the law. This type of control will outrage citizens of the country, the unnamed journalist says.

“It’s so stupid. I don’t know what to say. They have to stop this. Many people will oppose this in the country. They won’t be silent.”

The report notes that no divide between Church and State exists in Saudi Arabia. The bad part is that the Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice has powerful “backers” that include Prince Naif, the heir to the nation’s throne. He announced that the committee “should be supported because it is a pillar from Islam. If you are a Muslim, you should support the committee.”

If there was any hope among the people that King Abdullah’s son would steer Saudi Arabia in a different direction, it’s lost at this point. By supporting the committee, the prince also supports the “tempting eye ban.” Oppression will continue in the nation, as women are considered nothing more than property.

[Photo Credit: Hassan Ammar/AP Photo via Assyrian International News Agency]