Activists speak out about shooting of man in wheelchair

Community leaders continued Sunday to sound off about the Wilmington police shooting that left a 28-year-old wheelchair-bound man dead.

Jeremy “Bam” McDole, 28, was shot and killed by four city officers Wednesday around 3 p.m. in the 1800 block of Tulip Street.

Some called for the Attorney General’s Office to swiftly file charges against the four officers – three of whom are white and one of whom is Hispanic. Others denied police accounts that McDole had a .38-caliber gun, pointing to a YouTube video where a gun is not visible.

“This is an injustice,” said community activist and Hilltop resident Robert Bovell. “There is no way someone in a wheelchair should be shot that many times.”

Wilmington Police Chief Bobby Cummings said McDole was armed when officers arrived around 3 p.m. to a report of a man who had shot himself. McDole was reaching for a gun when the officers opened fire, he said.

Police also say they found a .38-caliber gun at McDole’s side after the shooting.

Cell phone video captured by a bystander and posted to YouTube shows an officer pointing a shotgun at McDole, screaming at him to “drop the gun,” while other officers scream “hands up.”

McDole, who was paralyzed from the waist down, is seen fidgeting and trying to raise himself from the wheelchair. Then he slides his hands up his thigh and toward his waist as the officers open fire.

The video has drawn international attention and a growing chorus of questions about what led up to the shooting. In response, police released a portion of the 911 call where a woman reported to police that a man had shot himself.

She asked police to get an ambulance to the AutoZone parking lot along Lancaster Avenue, saying that the man was still moving and had a gun.

The recording did little to quell some activists’ disbelief that McDole had a gun.

“There was no weapon in that video,” Bovell said. “There is no system in this place we call America that they give you justification for what happened to Mr. McDole.”

Two investigations – one by city police and another by Attorney General Matt Denn’s office – are ongoing. Few details have been released from either office, and a city police spokeswoman said the department may provide more information Monday depending how the investigation progresses.

Frustration over the lack of details could be seen Sunday during Bovell’s live television program called “Community Conversations.”

McDole’s family, including his mother Phyllis, were invited to be on the show. They arrived for the taping, but then left, refusing to talk about McDole’s shooting.

The show went on with Bovell hosting three activists for an hour-long discussion.

One of the guests, who identified himself as Hope, from New Jersey, said the city community needs to unite. “No matter who you are, we will be here to step in to help,” he said.

He questioned the police training that led the four officers to open fire, rather than negotiate with McDole or try to help him.

Bovell agreed. “At what point were your lives threatened?” Bovell asked of the officers. “At what point were your lives in jeopardy? They didn’t take cover; they took a stand, and they aimed and they fired.”

Minister Robert Muhammad, of Wilmington’s Muhammad’s Mosque #35, encouraged peace in the city and touted the importance of people attending the Million Man March in Washington D.C. on Oct. 10 in light of the shooting of McDole. This year’s march will mark 20 years since the original one where African American men gathered on the National Mall.

“This is not going away,” Bovell said. “This is somebody who was shot multiple times – we don’t even know the number – and no one deserves to die that way.”

Contact Jessica Masulli Reyes at 302-324-2777, jmreyes@delawareonline.com or Twitter @JessicaMasulli.