Seven in 10 women in Lima say they've been sexually harassed

They were shocked to find out that the women were their mothers

The men made remarks about the women before identities were revealed

The show disguised the men's mothers who walked past their sons

A new TV show in Peru has captured the moment unwitting men have been caught wolf-whistling their own mothers.

The experiment took two mothers, whose sons were identified as repeat cat-callers, and disguised them using make-up, wigs and clothes. The women then women walked past their sons to gauge their reaction.

The mother wearing a disguise of a wig and sunglasses walks past her unsuspecting son and a friend, before he makes a comment towards her

The mother then goes over to confront her child, who is still unaware the woman is actually his parent

The man acts in horror as he realises it is his own mother and she launches into a tirade, accusing him of being dirty

The mother gets so angry with her son, she then takes off her bag and proceeds to hit him with it due to this behaviour

In the first case, the mother is dressed in a short black dress and walks past her son and a friend in the street.

The son then unwittingly makes a comment at his mother saying 'tasty panties' which prompts her to go and confront him.

She then removes her sunglasses and the man then realises he has just cat-called his own mother.

The mother then launches into a tirade, accusing him of being dirty and saying she never taught him to talk to women in that manner.

Another mother, wearing a black wig walks past her son, who is standing working on the streets of Lima

After making a remark towards his mother, she then turns around and goes over to confront him

She then takes off her wig to reveal herself and then throws it on the floor in anger after being disgusted by her son's behaviour

The mother then tells her son he should be ashamed of himself for speaking to her like that, as he pleads with her to calm down

She then gets so angry with her child that she then removes her bag and hits him with it.

Meanwhile in the second case, the mother wearing a green dress, walks past her son, who calls her 'piggy'.

She then calls his name before taking off her wig and confronting her son, hitting him with her hairpiece.

The man then tries to claim he didn't make the remark but is then forced to apologise to his mother before she walks off

She too launches into a tirade telling her son to he should be ashamed of himself, while he pleads with his mother to quieten down as he is working.

He then tries to claim he didn't make the remark and it a man in a nearby car, but he eventually apologises before his mother walks off.

The video ends with a warning saying men should start respecting women before they unwittingly harass their own mothers.