My Word – Anonymous (found in email)

Suggested by Bill Browne

Return to Judeo-Christianity needed now.

What follows is the content of one of those anonymous emails that went viral. Read it and you will see why it did so. Below that is a link to a Washington Times article. That is so you will know the email wasn’t just some hoax. (G.R. Clark)

If we can’t keep God in our schools, why are we forced to learn Islam?

This issue is even more pronounced in my thinking at this time, since the marine whose daughter (in a La Plata, Md. school) received a failing grade in history because she refused to take the Islam study course. Incidentally, no alternative course was offered. Her Marine father brought this to the forefront, since he fought in Iraq and Afghanistan, and is very aware of how dangerous this religion is — definitely not one of peace.

I know there are some of you that are Democrats and love Obama, but this is for Christians first, politics later. I do pray that it doesn’t offend anybody with the truth of the message, but it has to be sent. If you love your Lord first, and your politics later, then you will appreciate this message. If you don’t, I’m sorry I judged you wrong.

When we get 100,000,000, that’s one hundred million willing Christians to BOND together, voice their concerns and vote we can take back America with God’s help. Become one of the one hundred million. Then let’s get 200 million. It can be done just by sending this email to your friends. Do the math. It only takes a single willing heart and a fed up SOUL.

God bless America and shine Your light on Her!

Now President Obama is encouraging schools to teach the Quran for extra credit, while at the same time, they cannot even talk about the Bible, God, pray, or salute the American Flag.

The direction this country is headed should strike fear in the heart of every Christian, especially knowing that the Muslim religion believes that if Christians cannot be converted, they should be killed.

Send this to ten people, or even one hundred and ten! And, send it the person who Sent it to you! To let them know that indeed, it was sent out to many more.