Ann Arbor pizza delivery driver surprised with $2,000 tip

It's not every night that a pizza delivery driver receives a $2,000 tip.

But that's what happened Thursday to one Ann Arbor driver who delivered a single pizza to a conference room full of more than 200 realtors from Michigan and northern Ohio on Thursday.

Pizza House delivery manager Brian LeFevre said he received a call Thursday morning from a man who said they wanted one pizza delivered to the Sheraton Hotel in Ann Arbor.

"They said they wanted it at 2:20 p.m. on the dot," LeFevre said. "I gave it to our delivery driver and he went down there and took it to the front desk."

LeFevre said his driver was escorted to a conference room where a man was up front with a microphone.

A video posted on YouTube shows the deliverer being stopped as he handed over the pizza and then presented with $2,084, letters of encouragement, a Visa gift card and lottery tickets -- all to cheers from the crowd. LeFevre said the driver, who identifies himself as Rob in the video but whose last name wasn't released, has worked at the restaurant about six years.

When he came back, LeFevre said, Rob was visibly happy.

"He was clearly pretty ecstatic about something so I asked him what's going on," Le said. "He said, 'I just had a life-changing delivery.' He was kind of blown away."

LeFevre said he's never seen a driver earn such a large tip.

"For one pizza, that's a pretty good day's work," he said. "It's nice to be appreciated."

Stacey McVey, team leader of Keller Williams Greater Cleveland West, said that at the company's annual conference, all the agents agreed to pitch in to show someone from the service industry their appreciation.

"Our company as a whole is very interested in doing things like that," she said. "It's really important as businesses that we give back. We believe a group of people can come together and change a life and cause other people to think about how to change others' lives. People in the service industry, I think they're pretty under-appreciated. It's a lot of fun to do something like this."

McVey said when the driver realized what was going on, it was a priceless moment.

"He was a little stunned," she said. "Everyone was excited and you could kind of feel the energy in the room. This is the first time we've done anything over the top and this won't be the last."

Contact Katrease Stafford: kstafford@freepress.com or 313-223-4759. Follow her on Twitter @KatreaseS_Freep.