Morgan Freeman: 'Jailing Hillary Clinton Only Way to Take Down the Elite'

Hollywood actor speaks out urging President Trump to 'restore public faith in justice'

| @NeonNettle By: Jay Greenberg on 30th October 2017 @ 10.26am

© press Morgan Freeman says Trump must jail Hillary Clinton to restore justice in the US

Hollywood actor Morgan Freeman has spoken out urging Donald Trump to "jail Hillary Clinton," saying it's the only way to end corruption amongst the American elites and restore the public's faith in real justice. The movie star warned that the people are losing faith in government when they see the former First Lady's crimes going unpunished, saying: "It's clear to most people that there are laws for those with money and power and other laws for the rest of us. "If President Trump wants to restore public faith in government institutions and true justice, then he needs to start by jailing Hillary Clinton and anyone else who thinks the US Constitution is nothing more than list of suggestions."

While in New York promoting National Geographic’s new documentary series The Story of Us Morgan Freeman said: "Hillary [Clinton] belongs in prison for the crimes she has committed. "She has abused her position for too long to make millions for herself and her cronies, all at the expense of the American people. "President Trump needs to act now to send out a clear message that no one, and I mean no one, is above the law in the United States of America, and he needs to do that by sending her to jail for her unlawful deeds." When asked why he thinks Donald Trump hasn't fulfilled his campaign promise to "lock her up," Freeman tipped his head back to look up to the sky, with his hands held out, palms facing upward, and after a short pause said: "Goddamnit man! The woman's committed high treason! Lock her up!" A reporter pointed out to Mr. Freeman that high treason carries the death penalty in the US, to which he replied, "so be it," in his trademark calming tone. Responding to an accusation that his comments could be considered politically incorrect, the Shawshank Redemption star casually quipped; "I like to think of it as 'perfectly incorrect'"

He then laughed and said, "it's all caring and being too afraid to speak your mind these days, isn't it? Even when it comes to the bad guys." "We as a society need to start loving and caring for each other so we can unite and put that woman behind bars where she belongs." The veteran actor, who remains as professionally active as at any point in his long career, cannot be accused of partisan bullying. It appears the 80-year-old star is merely a straight shooter who would prefer politicians and public figures to be held to the same standards as everybody else. In September the Deep Impact star appeared in a viral video demanding Donald Trump address the American people to speak directly about the extent of Russia ’s interference in the 2016 presidential election. While insisting that the Kremlin’s election meddling is "no movie script," and that he didn't know whether those allegations were true or not, Freeman said, "we need our president to speak directly to us and tell us the truth. "We need him to sit behind the desk in the Oval Office and say, ‘My fellow Americans. During this past election, we came under attack by the Russian government, "'I’ve called on Congress and our intelligence community to use every resource available to conduct a thorough investigation to determine exactly how this happened.'"