99.9% Of US Politicians Are Actual Psychopaths, New Study Reveals

The new analysis ranked 48 continental states and the District of Columbia

| @NeonNettle By: Daniel Newton on 20th June 2018 @ 2.30pm

© press The new analysis ranked 48 continental states and the District of Columbia

A new study published by the Social Science Research Network has revealed that 99.9% of all politicians in the USA are actual psychopaths.

The question is, are politicians already psychopaths, or does the line of work change them as such?

The new analysis ranked 48 continental states and the District of Columbia by measuring the psychopathic personality of their residents.

The leader of the study, Ryan Murphy, told Newsweek:

“These results are the first estimates we have, to the best of my knowledge, on the degree of psychopathy found in each state."

Murphy claimed that each state’s ranking was computed on a previous study that ranked each state on the “Big Five” personality traits:

Agreeableness

Extraversion

Openness

Conscientiousness

neuroticism

© press

According to Miamiherald.com: This was done by analyzing the results of personality surveys given to thousands of residents in each state. People tended to have different levels of each of the “Big 5” traits depending on where they lived.

That previous study, which was published in 2013, aimed at separating the United States into broad regions of personality.

The states in the mid-Atlantic and northeast were classified as “temperamental and uninhibited.”

Those in middle America were “friendly and conventional,” while those in the west coast, Rocky Mountains, and Sunbelt region were “relaxed and creative.”

Psychopaths tend to be extroverted and charming yet “largely devoid of guilt, empathy, and love,” according to Scientific American.

They do things purely for their own interests , have shallow relationships and place blame on others when things go wrong, according to the magazine.

Murphy used the data on personality from the previous study and used it to calculate a new score based on personality traits that indicated psychopathy, according to Quartz.

After all the number crunching, what was the top psychopath hotspot? Washington D.C.

“The top five observations in psychopathy are the District of Columbia, Connecticut, California, New Jersey, and a tie of New York and Wyoming for fifth. The states that are least psychopathic are West Virginia, Vermont, Tennessee, North Carolina, and New Mexico,” Murphy wrote.

Murphy wrote that people should take the capitol’s top spot with a little bit of skepticism.

© press

The D.C. area is small and entirely urban, so it is inherently different than comparing a state, which has a more diverse geography and population, he wrote.

Still, Murphy said in his study that the finding is consistent with a different study that found “psychopaths are likely to be effective in the political sphere” and could be tempted to work in the “literal seat of power.”

In general, Murphy writes that areas of the northeast are the most psychopathic, while rural areas are the least psychopathic, and that D.C. appears to be “far more” psychopathic on its own than any state in the country.