Image taken by Walmart customer prior to police arriving.

42-year old Diane Jessop received the surprise of her life while shopping at her local Roy County, Kentucky, Walmart Saturday morning. According to police statements, Mrs. Jessop was sorting through the store’s discount DVD bin in attempt to find a few movies to give her granddaughter on her upcoming birthday when she discovered a lifeless newborn buried in the middle of the bin.

According to on-scene witnesses, several customers made their way to the DVD bin when they heard Mrs. Jessop scream and call for help. Jessop told police that as she was sorting through the DVD’s she saw what appeared to be a small foot. The bin was in close proximity to the store’s toy isle so Mrs. Jessop initially assumed that someone had placed a doll in the bin. It wasn’t until she grabbed the foot and pulled the body from the pile of DVD’s that she realized that it was not a baby doll, but the body of a lifeless newborn girl.

Local police and responding paramedics confirmed that the child had been dead for approximately 48-hours and was estimated to be around 2-months old.

Upon reviewing security footage, police estimate the child was placed in the DVD bin by who investigators believe to be the young girl’s mother on Friday, August 12th at around 7:10 PM. The security footage provided by the Walmart Loss Prevention Department has yet to be released to the public, however investigating officers believe the newborn’s mother to be Luciana Garcia, a 27-year old Roy County resident.

According to investigating officers, the security footage does not show Garcia placing the lifeless newborn in the DVD bin, however does show the 27-year old woman “lingering around” the DVD bin while wearing a dark green backpack and according to investigators “behaving in a suspicious manner”. According to Walmart Loss Prevention Shift Leader Daniel Leigh, the Roy County location doesn’t have the most up-to-date security cameras and its possible that Garcia removed the newborn from the backpack during a moment when the DVD bin was not within frame of the nearby security camera.

Diane Jessop told local reporters that Walmart management provided her with a $50 gift card to make up for her troubling experience, however it may be some time before she’s ready to shop at the popular big-box retailer again.







