The RCMP released security footage that showed Michael Zehaf Bibeau running towards Parliament with his gun drawn, carjacking a minister’s car and attempting to make his final assault on Centre Block.

In a lengthy press conference Thursday afternoon, RCMP Commissioner Bob Paulson also said Michael Zehaf Bibeau shot Cpl. Nathan Cirillo from behind, and the soldier did not see him coming. Zehaf Bibeau shot at a second soldier with Cpl. Cirillo, but missed.

Police say the video shows Zehaf Bibeau was able to get from Wellington Street to Centre Block in about one minute and 20 seconds and there was little time to respond. The video shows Mounties chasing him, closely behind.

The video does not show what occurred inside Parliament, where Zehaf Bibeau was killed. Police said they are still putting together what happened inside.

Paulson said Zehaf Bibeau was in Ottawa to apply for a passport, which was in the process of being evaluated, and they believe he wanted to travel to Syria. Paulson said there is no known link between Zehaf Bibeau and Martin Couture-Rouleau, who ran down two Canadian soldiers in Quebec Monday, killing one.

However, Zehaf Bibeau was associated with “an individual known to us,” Paulson said. He said the gunman’s email was found in the hard drive of a person charged with a terror-related offence.

The RCMP commissioner also said the gunman was not one of the 93 people on the RCMP’s high-risk travel list.

Zehaf Bibeau’s mother told the RCMP that her son wanted to travel to Syria when they spoke to her Wednesday, Paulson said.

Police say do not know how he got the weapon, a 30-30 Winchester lever action rifle, and that’s a significant part of their investigation. He was banned from owning a firearm, the RCMP said.

Zehaf Bibeau came to Ottawa on October 2 and was staying at the Ottawa Mission, a downtown men’s shelter. Residents there said he struggled with drug addiction and he was “furious” about not being able to get a passport.

“He went on for more than an hour about how much this country sucked and how he wanted to get out of here, and he was furious about the passport,” Mission resident Norman LeBlanc told The Canadian Press Thursday.

The vehicle used in the attack, an older-model Toyota Corolla, was only purchased on October 21, police said.

The commissioner also announced that the RCMP will now stay with Prime Minister Stephen Harper “24/7, no matter where he is.”