b"State Highlights\n\nWhat had once been considered an easy feat  defeating a Democrat in a conservative-leaning Southern state  turned out to be harder than Senator Saxby Chambliss had anticipated.\n\nMr. Chambliss, the Republican incumbent, was forced to compete in a runoff on Dec. 2 after he slipped to 49.8 percent in the Nov. 4 election  just shy of the 50-percent margin required for victory under state law.\n\nHe had faced two opponents in the general election  Jim Martin, a Democrat, and Allen Buckley, a Libertarian.\n\nIn November, Mr. Chambliss faced an onslaught of energized Democratic voters in his home state. In the final weeks of the campaign, the ripples of Senator Barack Obama's historic campaign became more visible as a large number of Democrats, particularly African-Americans, lined up to vote early.\n\nBut with 90 percent of the state's precincts reporting in the December runoff election, Mr. Chambliss had 59 percent of the vote, and Mr. Martin had 41 percent. The margin was far greater than the three percentage points that separated the two men in the November election. Many of the Democrats who turned out in November in enthusiastic support of Barack Obama apparently did not show up at the polls in December.\n\nMr. Chambliss's victory ended Democratic hopes for a 60-vote majority in the Senate that would have made it difficult for Republicans to filibuster the Obama administration's legislative agenda.\n\nIn Nov. 4 races for the House of Representatives, Jim Marshall, a three-term Democrat of the Eighth District who in 2006 won by a small margin in a district that voted for President Bush in 2004, staved off a Republican threat from a retired Air Force major general, Rick Goddard.\n\nRepresentative John Barrow, a Democrat who represents the 12th District and who won his seat by 864 votes in 2006, won easily this time with two-thirds of the vote. The 13th District also had a Democratic winner, David Scott. JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ and ROBBIE BROWN\n\nUpdated: Dec. 2, 2008"