A man tries to take pictures of the Mediterranean Sea as waves break on Tel Aviv's beach promenade Jan. 6, 2015. REUTERS/Baz Ratner

People play in front of a wave crashing into Beirut's Corniche, a seaside promenade, as high winds sweep through Lebanon ahead of an impending storm Jan. 6, 2015. REUTERS/Jamal Saidi

Waves hit the seafront of the coastal town of Netanya, north of Tel Aviv, on Jan. 6, 2015, as a winter weather front reached Israel. (AFP PHOTO/JACK GUEZ)

Waves hit the seafront of the coastal town of Netanya, north of Tel Aviv, on Jan. 6, 2015, as a winter weather front reached Israel. (AFP PHOTO/JACK GUEZ)

A man walks on a beach as high waves hit the seafront of the Israeli coastal town of Netanya, north of Tel Aviv, on Jan. 6, 2015. (AFP PHOTO/JACK GUEZ)

Palestinian refugee children, who fled their camp due to the ongoing fighting between rebels and Syrian pro-government forces, play with snow outside tents erected in a schoolyard in the Jaramana district on the outskirts of the capital Damascus on Jan. 7, 2015. (AFP PHOTO/YOUSSEF KARWASHAN)

Syrian children play in the snow outside their apartment buildings in the residential neighbourhood of Jaramana in southern Damascus, on Jan. 7, 2015. A fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean led authorities in various countries of the region to take precautionary measures. (AFP PHOTO/LOUAI BESHARA)

Waves flood the harbour of the historical Lebanese city of Byblos, north of the capital Beirut, on January 7, 2015. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/JOSEPH EID)

Seagulls fly over a rough sea in Dbayeh, north of the Lebanese capital Beirut (seen in the background), on Jan. 7, 2015. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/JOSEPH EID)

Palestinian refugees, who fled their camp due to the ongoing fighting between rebels and Syrian pro-government forces, shovel snow outside tents erected in a schoolyard in the Jaramana district on the outskirts of the capital Damascus on Jan. 7, 2015. A fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean led authorities in various countries of the region to take precautionary measures. (AFP PHOTO/YOUSSEF KARWASHAN)

Lebanese men walk past large waves hitting Beirut's Ain al-Mreisseh seafront promenade on Jan. 7, 2015. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/ANWAR AMRO)

Syrian refugees remove snow that accumulated on their tents at the UN-run refugee camp of Fayda near the Bekaa Valley town of Zahle in eastern Lebanon on Jan. 7, 2015. A Syrian man and a six-year-old boy died in the cold as a major storm dumped snow and rain on Lebanon, the local Red Cross agency said. (AFP PHOTO/STR)

High waves from rough seas cover a restaurant on the seafront of the historical Lebanese city of Byblos, north of Beirut, on Jan. 7, 2015. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/JOSEPH EID)

A picture taken on Jan. 7, 2015 shows heavy snow fall on the centre of the Syrian capital Damascus, as a fierce winter storm lashed the east coast of the Mediterranean, forcing many schools and businesses to close in various parts of the region. (AFP PHOTO/STR)

A cargo ship sails off the coast of Lebanon as high waves hit the seafront of the historical city of Byblos, north of Beirut, on Jan. 7, 2015. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/JOSEPH EID)

A Lebanese fisherman tightens the mooring ropes of his fishing boat the harbour of the historical Lebanese city of Byblos, north of the capital Beirut, on Jan. 7, 2015. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/JOSEPH EID)

Waves flood the harbour of the historical Lebanese city of Byblos, north of the capital Beirut, on Jan. 7, 2015. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/JOSEPH EID)

A Lebanese man rushes to inspect a car after it was washed away by high waves on Jan. 7, 2015 on Beirut's southern coast. The fierce winter storm lashing the east coast of the Mediterranean forced a brief closure of Beirut airport. (AFP PHOTO/ANWAR AMRO)

Tents at an unofficial refugee camp for Syrians fleeing the violence in the country are covered with snow during heavy snowfall on the road between Riyaq and Baalbek in Lebanon's eastern Bekaa Valley, near the border with Syria, on Jan. 7, 2015. (AFP PHOTO/STR)

A rebel fighter carries his weapon as walks along a street during snowfall in the besieged town of Arbeen in the eastern Ghouta of Damascus Jan. 7, 2015. REUTERS/Yaseen Al-Bushy

DUBAI – A prominent Saudi Arabian cleric has whipped up controversy by issuing a religious ruling forbidding the building of snowmen, describing them as anti-Islamic.

Asked on a religious website if it was permissible for fathers to build snowmen for their children after a snowstorm in the country’s north, Sheikh Mohammed Saleh al-Munajjid replied: "It is not permitted to make a statue out of snow, even by way of play and fun."

Quoting from Muslim scholars, Sheikh Munajjid argued that to build a snowman was to create an image of a human being, an action considered sinful under the kingdom’s strict interpretation of Sunni Islam.

"God has given people space to make whatever they want which does not have a soul, including trees, ships, fruits, buildings and so on," he wrote in his ruling.

That provoked swift responses from Twitter users writing in Arabic and identifying themselves with Arab names.

"They are afraid for their faith of everything … sick minds," one Twitter user wrote.

Another posted a photo of a man in formal Arab garb holding the arm of a "snow bride" wearing a bra and lipstick. "The reason for the ban is fear of sedition," he wrote.

A third said the country was plagued by two types of people:

"A people looking for a fatwa (religious ruling) for everything in their lives, and a cleric who wants to interfere in everything in the lives of others through a fatwa," the user wrote.

Sheikh Munajjid had some supporters, however. "It (building snowmen) is imitating the infidels, it promotes lustiness and eroticism," one wrote.

"May God preserve the scholars, for they enjoy sharp vision and recognize matters that even Satan does not think about."

Snow has covered upland areas of Tabuk province near Saudi Arabia’s border with Jordan for the third consecutive year as cold weather swept across the Middle East.