I was honored to do the first interview with the Bradstreet family, and commend them for their bravery as they search for answers; they’ve hired their own private investigators and “want to get to the bottom of this”. Their investigators have concluded that this was murder- without a doubt. It was not a suicide. It was murder.

Other families are coming forward and have hired their own investigators too, including Dr Marshall’s wife, who is an MD. Her investigator has said he believes her husband was murdered and a “set up” done by someone with law enforcement or military training (story linked in timeline below).

More families every day are hiring their own teams or investigators because they aren’t buying the “official” stories local law enforcement is giving them.

I’ve also been told by one of the most prominent doctors that their local law enforcement is looking into the death and is talking with the FBI.

So that’s a start.

Since so many of these doctors (and the few researchers I included in this unintended series) were fathers- I wanted to honor them today on Father’s day.

I finally agreed to be a producer on a film being made on the subject, but we have a long way to go. I finally agreed to be a producer on a film being made on the subject, but we have a long way to go. You can watch the trailer here.

I think the more we talk about this tragedy, share it with others and get people talking, that perhaps we’ll make even more progress.

Already, the fact that any law enforcement is even talking to the FBI is a start.

I appreciate the few media organizations who have had the guts to share these stories: the New York Times, (who wrote me requesting info), The Independent UK, and network affiliates (ABC, CBS, NBC, FOX) around the US. Sadly, most mainstream sites barely cover one doctor, let alone the dozens we’ve had die this year, if we count mysterious accidents, murders, alleged suicides, or unexplained sudden deaths.

As you will see in the timeline below, there are allegedly 3 different dates within one month where 2 doctors died on the same day. That’s 6 doctors (who died in pairs on 3 different days).

Some of the biggest skeptics, those who rolled their eyes at the first few deaths, are now wondering if there isn’t a connection. There have been theories, from GcMAF to CBD oil, but I don’t think all doctors used both of these treatments. I’m not convinced either is the smoking gun, but might hold part of the answer.

There are several unsolved murders here (and some alleged suicides, most still under investigation), and I sincerely hope they get to the bottom of this as again, we knew several of these amazing doctors personally.

Besides the fact that the majority were holistic, there is another common theme; they all cared deeply and were passionate about health. I have endless emails from their friends, patients, neighbors, loved ones, and family members. It’s clear they were adored by many.

I hope they are never forgotten and that others will carry on their work and not live in fear.

These healers- some of whom were best selling authors- were kind, caring people who have left this world a better place; I’m honored to have known them, and am still studying their work today.

for more information and stay safe and strong. While it’s always good to be aware, I’ve learned that living in fear doesn’t help us at all. Sign up for the newsletter for more information and stay safe and strong. While it’s always good to be aware, I’ve learned that living in fear doesn’t help us at all.

See below for the official detailed timeline. NOTE: There is often more than one doctor per # listed. Some paragraphs mention 8 dead doctors in one single sentence with links. We are at well over 50 at this point, a few being researchers and a holistic board certified NP who worked with Dr Bradstreet, but the rest are all doctors.

2) June 21st, 2015 – Father’s Day, East Coast of Florida: Two chiropractors are found dead. Their names are Dr. Baron Holt and Dr. Bruce Hendendal, both fathers. Dr. Hedendal also held a PhD in nutrition from Harvard. Both were presumably healthy and described as very fit. There is still no cause of death listed, for either doctor, in any articles we find. A few people have contacted me about Dr. Hedendal, 67, but admit that they were surprised by his death and still find it shocking. (Update: Family and loved ones of Dr. Hedendal have spoken to the media that they are suspicious of his death and want answers. Interestingly, Dr. Holt (33), lived in North Carolina which is the state where Dr. Bradstreet’s body (the first doctor to be found) was discovered two days prior. Dr. Holt was visiting Jacksonville, Florida, though, when he died there. Dr. Bradstreet (see story #1) was living in Georgia at the time of his death and before that he lived in the neighboring state of Florida. 2) A few mutual friends of Dr. Holt have contacted me. They are doctors and have shared with me a cause of death that I find rather shocking and cannot confirm, therefore, out of respect for the family, I will not list that here. Both were well loved by their patients, community, friends and family.

4) July 3, 2015 – Patrick Fitzpatrick, MD goes missing. He was traveling from North Dakota to neighboring Montana (which he did often as his son lives there) and his truck and trailer were found on the side of the road. The search has expanded but authorities say it’s as if he vanished without a trace. He’s 6′ tall and described as Irish-looking with a goatee (details can be found in the links). 4)

5) July 10th, 2015 – Lisa Riley, 34 years old, DO (Doctor of Osteopathic medicine) is found in her home with a gunshot wound to her head. Her husband who found her and called 911, has a prior record. He was previously charged with the attempted murder of his ex, Ms. King, before charges were eventually dropped. Evidence showed that there was gun residue found on Ms. King’s hand and not Mr. Riley’s. Riley’s story corroborated this, but King’s allegedly didn’t, and her story kept changing (click link in this paragraph for their story with details on all of this). Mr. Riley has since been charged with the death of his wife, Lisa Riley. We’ll see what happens in court. 5)

6 ) July 19, 2015 – A month to the day after the first doctor (Jeff Bradstreet, MD) was found dead with a gunshot wound to his chest, A month to the day after the first doctor (Jeff Bradstreet, MD) was found dead with a gunshot wound to his chest, Dr. Ron Schwartz was found murdered in his E. Coast Florida home. Sadly, he was shot to death. We don’t know if he was holistic, but he was licensed and lived between Florida and Georgia. He was a gynecologist who lived in an unincorporated part of Jupiter, Florida on a few acres of land and there are reports he ran an organic lawn service on the side.

7 ) July 21, 2015 – Dr. Nicholas Gonzalez, a holistic MD, dies suddenly. The same day another holistic doctor is also found dead (see below) . They both allegedly died of heart attacks, though their own friends and family say publicly it doesn’t add up. I had met Dr Gonzalez and his amazing wife, and my better half has interviewed him several times. His official website says that while they initially thought it was a heart attack, his autopsy does not support that belief and shows no heart attack. They are awaiting further tests. “Dr Gonzalez was in excellent health otherwise so his passing is quite unexpected.” There were rumors he was working with GcMAF, but his wife has clarified that he was not (some of the other doctors rumored to have used GcMAF also state their relative had never used it) The church at Dr Gonzalez’ funeral in New York was jam packed though. Packed with his patients who he’d put into remission (some with stage IV pancreatic cancer) who are still in remission decades later. People every week (including close friends) write me questioning the fact that he died “naturally”. He also said in several interviews (including the last one before he died) tha t he thought big pharma wanted him to get hit by a bus or that he might die suddenly . Frightening metaphors and a mystery we hope to get to the bottom of soon.

8) July 21st, 2015 – Dr Abdul Karim, an outspoken and loved holistic (biological) dentist, 41 years of age, is found dead alongside the road by a passerby . He had been preparing for a half marathon and was allegedly out training that night. His old fraternity brother (lifelong friend), friends of many years, and patients said it didn’t add up. He was in perfect shape and ate an extremely healthy diet. Mainstream news said he had a “massive heart attack” but many who knew him have written to me with their sincere doubts. 8)

9) July 23, 2015- Authorities announce they have found the body of Dr Jeffrey Whiteside who 9)Authorities announce they have found the body of Dr Jeffrey Whiteside who has been missing for over 3 weeks. Chief Deputy Pat McCarty said at the news conference on Thursday that a .22 caliber gun was recovered at the scene. Investigators believe the body was there for “some time”.

10) August 12, 2015 – 10) Osteopath Mary Bovier is found slain to death in her home in Pennsylvania. Her significant other, who we are told is also an osteopath, was questioned and released. At this time there have been no arrests and there are no suspects.

11) August 18, 2015 – I report that 11)I report that Jeffrey Whiteside’s death is officially ruled as a suicide but the local press calls the investigation a “mess” (described here in detail). Many are shocked at how long it took for details to emerge and countless people write me with their doubts. Even local authorities were asked by the local press if they’d heard of my stories. They admitted they had, but hadn’t been contacted by the feds on the case.

12) September 7, 2015 – by an overdose of a hallucinogenic drug. I’ve done several updates of the articles, using a German translator, but the whole story of what really happened has still not been revealed. One thing most can agree on; it was a large overdose and mainstream German news reports that some were in “life threatening situations” when dozens of ambulances and a helicopter arrived to the chaotic scene. The good news? All lived and have allegedly made a full recovery (though some had to be restrained for their safety for some time). 12) I broke the news to the health community of 29 holistic doctors (also referred to in the German press as homeopaths/ND’s/psychiatrists) who were found poisoned by an overdose of a hallucinogenic drug. I’ve done several updates of the articles, using a German translator, but the whole story of what really happened has still not been revealed. One thing most can agree on; it was a large overdose and mainstream German news reports that some were in “life threatening situations” when dozens of ambulances and a helicopter arrived to the chaotic scene. The good news? All lived and have allegedly made a full recovery (though some had to be restrained for their safety for some time).

13) September 16, 2015 – I reported that our colleague, We knew Dr Gaynor and had just finished an advanced copy of his book that he had sent to us. It was quickly called a suicide by the local sheriff. The NY Times wrote me asking for details and we had a nice exchange. Even though I have gently broken the news on this and many other stories, the NY Times fails to source me (I didn’t expect them to source HealthNutNews, though the Guardian UK and other mainstream sources have for some time). UPDATE: Mitch Gaynor, MD had been on RT not long before he died. We knew Dr Gaynor and had just finished an advanced copy of his book that he had sent to us. It was quickly called a suicide by the local sheriff. The NY Times wrote me asking for details and we had a nice exchange. Even though I have gently broken the news on this and many other stories, the NY Times fails to source me (I didn’t expect them to source HealthNutNews, though the Guardian UK and other mainstream sources have for some time). UPDATE: Mitch Gaynor, MD had been on RT not long before he died. We wanted to contact them for comment, but soon after Mitch was found dead the founder of RT was found dead in his Washington DC hotel room. 13)I reported that our colleague, best selling author and holistic MD, Mitch Gaynor, is found dead outside his country home; an hour or so from Manhattan where he practiced.

14) Sunday October 11th – We announce that Dr Marie Paas is found dead of an alleged suicide . She was well known for her animal advocacy. People on her Facebook page seemed shocked and in disbelief about her death. Unlike the 3 others by this date who were alleged suicides (one who has been officially confirmed) we don’t know the location where Dr Paas was found, nor the details of her alleged suicide. Many seem concerned for her pets, who they say she loved very much. 14)Many seem concerned for her pets, who they say she loved very much.

15) October 29th 2015- Jerome E. Block, M.D, jumped to his death from Central Park West residence. Authorities say Block jumped from the 20th floor of his residence around 9:30 a.m. 15)Jerome E. Block, M.D,Authorities say Block jumped from the 20th floor of his residence around 9:30 a.m. Details and video can be found here.

18) January 23, 2016- A top MD, John Marshall, 49, who was a former 4th generation Marine, had served in Afghanistan, and had survival training, was found dead in the Spokane river and they pulled his body out that day. He was said to be in great shape and was doing his usual run in Spokane, near the river. UPDATE: Dr Marshall’s wife (also a doctor and surgeon) has hired her own investigator and is questioning the quick call by Seattle PD. Again, more families are questioning these deaths and what some find absurd rulings by authorities.) 18)A top MD, John Marshall, 49, who was a former 4th generation Marine, had served in Afghanistan, and had survival training, was found dead in the Spokane river and they pulled his body out that day. He was said to be in great shape and was doing his usual run in Spokane, near the river. Authorities say he somehow must have fallen into the river and drowned and almost immediately said it was death by drowning . (

20) January 25th, 2016- his wife of 37 years says he was “hearty and healthy” and calls it an accident. That’s all I’ll elaborate on right now, as even I don’t know all the details. Dr Floyd did buy a sauna from me (but that wasn’t involved in his death which I was told initially). Besides being a chiropractor, Dr Floyd was also a clinical professor at Palmer Chiropractor College near where we live. He and his wife have also run the Natural Awakenings magazine for some time. Our whole community is shocked and saddened by his death. 20) Our own friend of ten long years, holistic doctor Rod Floyd, was found dead at his home here in Florida. He just miles from us and I’d been to their home and they’d been to mine . It was definitely not suicide in any way andThat’s all I’ll elaborate on right now, as even I don’t know all the details. Dr Floyd did buy a sauna from me (but that wasn’t involved in his death which I was told initially). Besides being a chiropractor,

21) January 26, 2016- Believe it or not just a few short weeks later, a holistic MD and his wife (a physician’s assistant) were attacked, while on a relaxing beach stroll, by a sword wielding man in the same place- the tiny island of Grenada . The holistic MD survived. Sadly his wife was murdered and raped by the machete wielding attacker. Both perps in each attack of the doctors in Grenada in a couple of weeks are reported to have been recently released from prison and in both crimes (allegedly unrelated) the men just nonchalantly turned themselves in after the crime. Some experts have their theories on this. I won’t elaborate at this time. Grenada locals are shocked and say they’ve never seen anything like this- let alone twice in a row. 21)Believe it or notSadly his wife was murdered and raped by the machete wielding attacker. Both perps in each attack of the doctors in Grenada in a couple of weeks are reported to have been recently released from prison and in both crimes (allegedly unrelated) the men just nonchalantly turned themselves in after the crime. Some experts have their theories on this. I won’t elaborate at this time. Grenada locals are shocked and say they’ve never seen anything like this- let alone twice in a row.

22) January 28th, 2016- The new spate of cancer researcher/doctors who are killer or found dead doesn’t slow down and this might be the strangest of them all : Yet another cancer researcher, Professor Alan Clarke, 52, was found dead in the wood in hanging from a tree in a rubber body suit on December 28th, 2015 and they ruled it accidental. 22)The new spate of cancer researcher/doctors who are killer or found dead doesn’t slow down and

23) February 1, 2016- Just a week later, to the day, after losing She also stated publicly (which you’ll see in the link) that if anything happened to her don’t assume it was an accident. 23)Just a week later, to the day, after losing our local friend and holistic doctor, Rod Floyd , we lost another local friend from our holistic community. The wonderful young Paige Adams FNP, B-C, also lived just up the road here locally in Florida and was found dead in her home. She had worked closely for many years with her good friend and colleague Dr Bradstreet. The problem is Dr Bradstreet started off this whole holistic series when he was found dead in a river. Now we have his close friend (and our friend!) and his colleague of many years found dead. She was so young so this is particularly heartbreaking. Paige Adams had asked to stop by the house to see us days before she died. I feel awful for not taking her up on that, and my heart goes out to her family and patients. She is the only one in this entire series I’ve ever written about who is not a doctor of some sort (DC, MD, DO, and even a PhD at the end) But she was a board certified Nurse Practitioner whose patients rave about her endlessly.

23) February 14, Valentine’s Day- Cancer HIV Researcher in Seattle- Cheryl Deboer is found dead in a culvert with a plastic bag over her head. Investigators quickly state they can’t see any evidence that it’s a homicide, but her mother and other relatives state publicly there is no way she crawled 1.5 miles through brambles and water and mud to put a plastic bag over her head in a culvert. They stated that if she would have wanted to take her life (and listed plenty of reasons why she wouldn’t with a happy family and job at the famous cancer research lab) she could have done it much more easily. The general public tends to agree with the family. Families are now starting to question these ridiculous statements called so quickly by local authorities. Some are hiring their own investigators and doubting local authorities. Many are wondering if the local authorities are to be trusted. Investigators quickly state they can’t see any evidence that it’s a homicide, but her mother and other relatives state publicly there is no way she crawled 1.5 miles through brambles and water and mud to put a plastic bag over her head in a culvert. They stated that if she would have wanted to take her life (and listed plenty of reasons why she wouldn’t with a happy family and job at the famous cancer research lab) she could have done it much more easily.

24) February 21, 2016 – Dr. Armon Anthony Bert, D.C., 56, worked at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. He then went to school to become a chiropractor at Palmer College of Chiropractic in Davenport, Iowa, and graduated in 2000. Armon worked for Dr. Bobb Chiropractic Center in Silvis from 2000 to 2008 before moving to Perryville, Missouri. For the past eight years, Armon owned and operated Perryville Chiropractic Center. 24)– Dr. Armon Anthony Bert, D.C., 56, was reported missing by his family and later found in his car with the seat reclined, in the parking lot of a Kirkwood Lowes store, the “apparent’ victim of a heart attack. Dr Bert received his master’s degree in mechanical engineering andHe then went to school to become a chiropractor at Palmer College of Chiropractic in Davenport, Iowa, and graduated in 2000. Armon worked for Dr. Bobb Chiropractic Center in Silvis from 2000 to 2008 before moving to Perryville, Missouri.

25) March 10, 2016- 25) Yet another cancer researcher found dead in a field. He was only 34, and found in a safe quaint area in the countryside and people are astounded. Nearly immediately authorities announce his death is ‘not suspicious’, but there is a public outcry of how that could be so. We still have zero answers as to his cause of death.

30) March 14th, 2016- One of the strangest cases yet is 30)One of the strangest cases yet is holistic MD and acupuncturist Dr Clogston, 68, who was missing 3 weeks and eventually found dead in his car which was allegedly found off the route some say he took to work for 30 years. The peculiar part is Dr Clogston went missing on March 14, was reported missing on March 15, but then seen by someone who “knew him well” according to local authorities (they say this on video on the news). So how then- was he found dead weeks later in his car? Many would like to know. This is one of the strangest to me out of around 40 mysterious deaths.

31) May 6, 2016- Dr Suutari, an outspoken holistic doctor in the Los Angeles area, who had a beautiful family and new child, 31)Dr Suutari, an outspoken holistic doctor in the Los Angeles area, who had a beautiful family and new child, allegedly took his own life on Mother’s day in the garage. Here are what details we know on this sad death.

33) June 11, 2016- We discover that yet another holistic doctor has allegedly committed suicide. 33)We discover that yet another holistic doctor has allegedly committed suicide. Dr Alex Shvartsman (a dentist and a ND (naturopathic doctor) allegedly killed himself at home over the weekend. We are just hearing now that he, Mitch Gaynor (MD) #11 in our series, and Nick Gonzalez MD (#8 or #9- we had 2 who were found dead that day) were all speaking at an event last fall with Steve “Sproutman”. Steve was killed in a strange car accident (we wrote about him when it happened, but didn’t include in series). Dr Gaynor allegedly took his own life, Dr Gonzalez allegedly had a heart attack, but then his wife updated the public that it didn’t appear to be the case and they couldn’t find a cause of death, and now Dr Alex (allegedly) took his life. All in a matter of months. All of them spoke at the same Health Expo in the North East. This is breaking news, I found out late Father’s day night.

34) June 13th 2016- An arrest was made in the death of holistic doctor Mary Louise Yoder. The curious part is that I did not include her in the series originally since the authorities mistakenly said it was natural. So oftentimes we have authorities making these quick calls only to find out later they were completely false (why the rush officers?). For months, Yoder’s death was considered “natural” until reports say a family member demanded an investigation. In June, her employee (who was listed as her daughter on her obituary – they were so close) was arrested and it’s said she poisoned her. The employee is only 23 years old and had said Yoder meant the world to her. We will keep you updated on this story as new details may emerge. 34)An arrest was made in the death of holistic doctor Mary Louise Yoder. The curious part is that Dr. Yoder actually died in or around July 22nd 2015 (last year – a very busy week for holistic doctor deaths) and authorities almost immediately said she died of natural causes despite being fit, uber healthy and just 60 years old.So oftentimes we have authorities making these quick calls only to find out later they were completely false (why the rush officers?). For months, Yoder’s death was considered “natural” until reports say a family member demanded an investigation. In June, her employee (who was listed as her daughter on her obituary – they were so close) was arrested and it’s said she poisoned her. The employee is only 23 years old and had said Yoder meant the world to her. We will keep you updated on this story as new details may emerge.

35) June 16, 2016- 35) A man stormed into a holistic doctor’s office and gunned the man down and then turned the gun on himself – taking both their lives. A client walked in and saw them on the ground with a woman who worked there. She was screaming. The very next day (see #34) another man went into another holistic doctor’s office and killed him. These could be total coincidence, but we report all mysterious murders/suicides/unexplained sudden deaths of holistic doctors so are including them on this recap.

36) June 17, 2016- The victim was Dr. Tiejun Huang Ph.D./MD R.Ac, RMT, DTCM. Dr Huang was a sports medicine specialist at the Beijing Olympic Games, a professor in sports medicine and rehabilitation and performs acupuncture and Chinese “Tuina” massage. You can read all the details here. Dr Huang allegedly knew his assailant (authorities said immediately) but we had a holistic doctor gunned down by a man the day before in his office (see #33) who they say knew his assailant too. 2 holistic doctors in under 2 days murdered in their offices does raise eyebrows. 36) Another man stormed into a holistic doctor’s office (just a day later) and murdered the alternative MD in cold blood with a knife. The victim wasDr. Tiejun Huang Ph.D./MD R.Ac, RMT, DTCM. DrHuang was a sports medicine specialist at the Beijing Olympic Games, a professor in sports medicine and rehabilitation and performs acupuncture and Chinese “Tuina” massage. You can read all the details here. Dr Huang allegedly knew his assailant (authorities said immediately) but we had a holistic doctor gunned down by a man the day before in his office (see #33) who they say knew his assailant too. 2 holistic doctors in under 2 days murdered in their offices does raise eyebrows.

37) July 7, 2016- In July, a well known holistic doctor/acupuncturist- Jenny Shi, 65- was found dead inside her upscale Creekside Drive home, in Palo Alto, CA. The Santa Clara County Medical Examiner-Coroner’s Office found the cause of death to be multiple stab wounds. Shi, who had “business connections around the world” owned several acupuncture clinics in the Bay Area, including one on Castro Street in Mountain View. She also worked as an executive with Keiretsu Forum, an angel investment and venture capital firm and was not only a renowned acupuncturist but a business woman as well. 37)

38) August 6, 2016 – Born Alfredo Bowman in Honduras in 1933, Dr Sebi learned about herbal healing from his grandmother (one of his claims to fame was his belief that rendering the body into an alkaline state makes it impossible for disease and ailments to exist). 38)– Born Alfredo Bowman in Honduras in 1933, Dr Sebi learned about herbal healing from his grandmother (one of his claims to fame was his belief that rendering the body into an alkaline state makes it impossible for disease and ailments to exist). After being apprehended on charges of money laundering on May 28, 2016, Dr Sebi was detained. At an unconfirmed date between June 3rd and August 6th, he reported severe health conditions from the filthy Honduran jail he was being held in. He was rushed to Vicente D’Antoni Hospital but died it transit. HIS EXACT CONDITIONS OF DEATH AND ANY EVIDENCE OF FOUL PLAY IS STILL UNKNOWN AND UNDER INVESTIGATION.

I will continue to report on these stories despite death threats, being put on a hit list that was posted publicly (which we think is fake- but who makes up that kind of stuff?). I’ll be speaking at a few events in 2016 on the subject, one will be a group of doctors with several thousand in attendance.

I don’t want other doctors to live in fear. I know many have shut down their practice or have hired bodyguards due to these reports. I understand it’s necessary to be aware and safe, but I hope that those brave enough to work in holistic medicine will keep carrying the torch and doing their great work, in memory of those we lost this year.

Sincerely,

Erin Elizabeth